--- Q1 2022 ---
Operator

Welcome to Hertz Global Holdings First Quarter 2022 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] I would like to remind you that this afternoon's call is being recorded by the company.

I would now like to turn the call over to your host, Johann Rawlinson, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Johann Rawlinson

Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us. By now, you should have our earnings press release and associated financial information. We've also provided slides to accompany our conference call that can be accessed on our website.

I would like to remind you that certain statements made on this call contain forward-looking information. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and by their nature, are subject to inherent uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially. Any forward-looking information relayed on this call speaks only as of today's date and the company undertakes no obligation to update that information to reflect changed circumstances. Additional information concerning these statements is contained in our earnings press release and in the Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements section of our 2021 Form 10-K and our first quarter 2022 Form 10-Q filed with the SEC and on the Hertz website.

Today, we'll use certain non-GAAP financial measures, which are reconciled with GAAP numbers in our earnings press release available on the Investor Relations section of our website. We believe that our profitability and performance is better demonstrated using these non-GAAP measures. Comparisons discussed will exclude the effects of Donlen fleet leasing and management business, which we sold in March 2021.

On the call this afternoon, we have Stephen Scherr, our Chief Executive Officer; and Kenny Cheung, our Chief Financial Officer.

I'll now turn the call over to Stephen.

Stephen Scherr

Thank you, Johann. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to our first quarter earnings call. This is my first call as the new CEO of Hertz, and I look forward to speaking and meeting with many of you in the coming weeks and months.

Let me start by saying how proud I am to be a part of this company. My first 60 days have been exciting and have provided me with valuable insights into the business, both in terms of what we do well and equally where we need to improve. I've spent considerable time with our senior leadership team as well as our colleagues in the field at locations across the country.

My initial impressions are uniformly positive and consistent with what attractive need to the opportunity to lead this company. Hertz possesses an extraordinary brand, a brand that is commercially powerful and that aligns well with other emerging leaders in mobility. It is also a brand that attracts talent, both in terms of retention and in bringing new talent to the company. Hertz benefits from an exceptionally resilient workforce with employees that have long tenure at the company with a deep appreciation for and relationship with our customers. These tenured employees, combined with new and innovative talent is a powerful combination.

Hertz enjoys an exciting first mover advantage with electric vehicles now deployed across more than 30 markets in RAC and TNC. A considerable portion of our fleet will be electric by year-end with promising economics as EVs command higher pricing and draw lower operating costs. We are benefiting from early performance analytics and a growing roster of OEM partners. And of significance, Hertz operates from a position of financial strength, following its reorganization with impressive cash flow conversion, a renewed focus on returns, low leverage and a disciplined fleet size that is more in balance with demand at better margins than where the industry has been historically.

I took the CEO seat at Hertz because this company has the potential to reimagine its customer offering, produce higher returns and grow through its participation in the mobility equation through improved technology and better use of data. Hertz will continue to move people and things as it has throughout its 103-year history, except we will do it now in the context of a changing mobility landscape. We are building a more diversified fleet, including electric vehicles and a wider set of customer channels, including individuals, corporates and ridesharing.

At its core and borrowing from my past, I have come to view Hertz as an asset management business that combines vehicle purchasing, renting and disposition into a single analytical framework against which we measure returns. With a renewed focus on customers and greater attention to return on our assets, the Hertz of the future will be fundamentally different from the Hertz of the past.

There is much to do, the journey to improve our technology is underway. From the use of mobile phones to the deployment of telematics to the incorporation of artificial intelligence, Hertz will be in a better position to serve our customers, to price our assets and to manage our business.

We are building in the cloud with API architecture to enable Hertz to partner with others. We will have nearly the entire North American fleet equipped with telematics by year-end. All technology need not be built by Hertz as we can embed existing advancements in our systems at lower cost. What's more, with a growing EV fleet and a network of charging stations on our premises expanding to 3,000 across 80 markets by year-end, we will participate in the development of a new large-scale charging network being conceived both in the U.S. and abroad. Interested parties include governments, private capital, energy companies and infrastructure investors. As the mobility ecosystem changes, Hertz will play in it and grow with it.

To accomplish our objectives, we must compete in the race for talent. On this score, we are beginning with an exceptional base. As I noted, I have met with some of our Hertz professionals who have been with us for 25, 40 and even close to 50 years. We are also attracting new talent with a focus on engineering, technology and product design to a new and exciting opportunity at Hertz, including our announcement this morning of a new Chief Product Development Officer and recently around a new General Counsel.

We also implemented a company-wide profit sharing program, which means now all Hertz employees will participate in our success and will be awarded with cash bonuses as we hit profitability and customer satisfaction targets. Combining young innovative talent with technology will be a priority for the company in the pursuit of our strategic objectives.

The results in the first quarter, which Kenny will detail, tell a story of 2 halves. The first 6 weeks of the quarter were softer than expected due primarily to the impact of Omicron and lower volumes. By late February, we began to see demand rebound and our results for the back half of the quarter compensated for the initial softness. March was the first month since the onset of the pandemic where revenue exceeded its 2019 level, and we are seeing that momentum continue into April.

The progressive improvement in rentable utilization from January through February into March, moving from 66% to 80% across the quarter was a good indicator of that momentum as well as a reflection of stability in demand and solid management of the fleet. Total revenue for the quarter was $1.8 billion, a 57% improvement from the prior year period and adjusted corporate EBITDA was $614 million, a margin of 34%. While a portion of our results are unquestionably attributable to positive market forces, they also reflect pricing disciplines, structural improvements made to the business and strength in the residual value of the fleet. Current conditions provide us with an opportunity to invest in our future and to reduce our equity base through share repurchases.

Like others in the industry, we are experiencing the impact of constraints on the supply of new vehicles as well as certain inflationary cost pressures. It remains difficult to source fleet to meet demand, and this dynamic may well persist into 2023. The recent industry dynamics of limited fleet supply, combined with rapid post-COVID recovery of travel have led to demand for rental cars materially exceeding available supply, which is reflected in pricing. Given these challenges, our organization remains operationally flexible and careful on the cost side.

We are keeping cars longer, buying low mileage pre-owned vehicles and infleeting new car supply, including electric vehicles more quickly than before. We are also being careful to dispose of older vehicles from the fleet so as to ensure quality of product. As our cars age, we are taking care to weigh elevated used car prices against potential rental earnings and time our dispositions to maximize asset returns. Notwithstanding strong top line performance, now is the time to get prepared for as and when market conditions turn.

Impressively, our strong results this quarter were achieved while corporate and international inbound activity remained considerably below prepandemic levels. Domestic leisure travel, nonetheless, remains strong, coming into the high summer season. As business travel returns, we are focused on serving the highest quality, highest margin demand offered in the market at any given time. In aggregate, we expect the return of corporate and international inbound activity to be accretive to our earnings and margins for the balance of the year.

In my first 60 days, we have established near-term work plans to address our core technology stack, systems architecture, changes to the app and various other components of the customer journey. Progress will be real and incremental, and we will report on it as such. As we enter the summer peak season, we have already initiated enhancements to the customer experience. Our objective is to provide customers with a seamless digital experience every step of the way, ensured to take the hassle out of renting a car. This begins with the app, which must be reimagined.

Early progress in technology won't always be visible to our customers, but the experience will get better over a manageable time period. We have multiple pilot programs currently underway to field test certain touchless exit gate and rental experiences. Learnings here will be invaluable as we scale these initiatives. We are also running a pilot to move our insurance replacement business from a heavily paper-based system onto a digital platform. Earlier this week, we announced that we will be collaborating with Amazon Web Services to modernize and digitize the Hertz customer experience and key components of our new mobility platform such as enhanced data analytics and vehicle telematics.

We're also engaged with Oracle on the upgrade of our back-end systems and with Stripe on improvements to our payment systems. These initiatives will improve the efficiency and integrity of our operations and equip us with the tools to improve customer experience.

On the topic of customers, I want to address the ongoing media coverage around the false arrest litigation. Let me first note that the overwhelming majority of these cases involve renters who have kept our vehicles well beyond the due date and ignore repeated requests from Hertz to return our cars. In those instances, we have a responsibility to secure our assets and protect the company. In the minority of cases where customers were negatively affected, through no fault of their own, as I have said publicly, we will do right by them. Our policies and procedures are designed to diminish the possibility of innocent customers being impacted in the future. While theaffected group is a fraction of a percentage of the millions of rentals we process a year, even 1 customer being negatively and unfairly impacted is too much. The task to fix this belongs with me as the CEO of the company.

Let me pivot to our strategy around electric vehicles, where our momentum continues. We've expanded our Tesla rental offering to more than 20 markets, and we intend to be in 40 markets with Teslas by year-end. Looking forward, we are excited to take in additional Model 3 and Model Y vehicles over the course of the coming quarters. Rentals for the Model Ys have commenced in California and the rest of the country will follow soon.

Our recent partnership with Polestar is yet another important milestone in our EV journey. This partnership stretches over 5 years and aims to bring 65,000 Polestar 2 vehicles into our fleet. We continue to talk to multiple EV manufacturers to accelerate the adoption of electrification of our fleet, while promoting a lower carbon footprint. And I would like to see more than 30% of our fleet being electric by the end of 2024.

Our EV partnership with Uber also continues to grow and stretches across over 30 markets in the United States. The utilization rates we are seeing on this portion of the fleet are well over 80% and we continue to experience strong driver demand, supported by the increased earnings these drivers can generate by renting from Hertz versus outright ownership. The longer rental periods typical of this segment means fewer vehicle turns and meaningfully lower variable costs. This channel also provides us with greater flexibility to pivot our vehicles between rental and ridesharing, so as to make better use of our assets.

We are also continuing to see strong progress with our Carvana partnership. Several thousand cars have been sold through the Carvana platform, and we are very pleased with the results, providing us with a material uptick to prices found in the wholesale market. All these initiatives are expected to be earnings accretive for Hertz.

Looking ahead, we do not see demand for our services lessening anytime soon. And in fact, all indications point to an extremely busy summer. This, coupled with our high operating leverage and attention to the risks of supply chain and cost control gives me confidence that we are well positioned for the next quarter and the balance of the year.

I equally have confidence that we are taking the right steps to position this business for success in an evolving mobility landscape. From the cars we acquire to the customer experience and the products we offer to the expanding channels of customers with whom we engage to the increasing efficiency with which we price and manage our fleet to the way in which we dispose of our fleet. Hertz now has execution road maps and technology plans to elevate its competitive and strategic position.

Now I'll turn it over to Kenny to walk you through our results in more detail.

Kenny Cheung

Thank you, Stephen, and good afternoon, everyone. We continue to execute on our strategy of focusing on profitable revenue growth, staying disciplined with fleet and size, utilization and productivity. Our first quarter adjusted EPS was $0.87 and adjusted corporate EBITDA was $640 million, a margin, as Stephen noted, of 34%.

Our revenue for the first quarter was $1.8 billion, 57% higher than in 2021. This was slightly higher than the estimate that I put forward on our last call and mask the fact that this was really 2 different periods within the quarter, as mentioned earlier. The first 6 weeks were weaker than originally expected due to Omicron, but March more than compensated for that. Our performance in the back half of the quarter was due in large measure to improved rates, primarily driven by leisure customers demand. Our disciplined pricing, together with structural improvements we've spoken about previously, led to revenue per unit per month of $1,326, up 26% from 2021.

Within Q1, our RPU sequentially increased from approximately $1,100 in January to over $1,600 in March, driven by sequential improvement in utilization and pricing. I should highlight that effective from Q1, we revised our calculation of monthly revenue per unit, or total RPU, to use average rentable vehicles as the denominator. Average rentable vehicles excludes vehicles for sale on the company's retail lots were actively being sold through other disposition channels and are, therefore, unavailable for rent. We believe this is a better measurement of productivity of our rental fleet as it is unaffected by fluctuations in our disposition activity. For clarity, the calculation of depreciation per unit remains unchanged and includes all cars in the fleet as these remain subject to depreciation.

As I've said before, we are keenly focused on generating healthy revenue that is more accretive to the bottom line, and we are deliberate about pursuing high-quality business. We've worked hard to permanently improve our business from a go-to-market standpoint, but market forces on pricing are a function of limited supply and recurring demand.

Depreciation per unit per month for Q1 was a gain of $40 instead of an expense, which is within the range we previously guided. As explained in detail on our Q4 call, this is a result of today's strong market for used cars. As we fleet up for our spring and summer peak season and as we rotate more expensive cars into the fleet, the number of fully depreciated vehicles will decrease. As such, we continue to expect monthly depreciation per unit to increase sequentially through the remainder of 2022, normalizing towards the end of the year.

For Q2, we expect depreciation per unit per month to be between $110 and $130. We expect full year monthly DPU to be between $175 and $225. Our quarterly estimates of depreciation are based on our fleet plan, composition, vehicle acquisition and disposal amounts and related holding periods. Present and future market conditions factor into vehicle cap costs and residual value and therefore, also impact depreciation. These factors are also relevant in assessing ROA in connection with both acquisitions and disposition of vehicles.

Now moving to cost more broadly. Like most companies in the U.S., and as Stephen mentioned, we also experienced inflationary pressure during the quarter, which impacted us primarily in 3 ways: first, higher vehicle acquisition costs, which increased gross depreciation; second, higher operating costs resulting from labor shortages and increased employee compensation; and third, higher maintenance costs for our vehicles due to increased pricing of parts and service labor. We see these as being industry-wide factors that need to be offset by pricing and other initiatives.

As we mitigate these challenges, we will emerge a more operationally efficient organization. Notwithstanding these immediate challenges, we have several ongoing initiatives to drive additional productivity and operational efficiencies, including hiring at the field level to avoid costly outsourced labor and bringing on more mechanics and leveraging partnership with vendors to meet the maintenance needs of the fleet. We anticipate that cost inflation will further promote industry discipline and ensure optimal allocation of resources across the board.

Overall, the permanent cost improvements we have made and are making to the business have helped us to mitigate these inflationary pressures. As a percentage of revenue, DOE and SG&A for the quarter were 800 bps or $145 million better than 2021 and 250 bps or $45 million better than 2019.

In terms of our capital structure and liquidity, our balance sheet remains very healthy, positioning us well to fund our strategic initiatives and return value to shareholders via our share repurchase program. As of March 31, our liquidity was $2.7 billion, and is comprised of $1.5 billion of unrestricted cash and nearly $1.2 billion available under the revolving credit facility.

During the quarter, we increased our RCF capacity by $220 million to nearly $1.5 billion, which creates additional financial flexibility and enhances our corporate liquidity. We also raised approximately $2.5 billion through the issuance of medium-term notes as part of our ABS structure. The proceeds were used to repay existing revolving ABS debt, which in turn, freed up incremental capacity for future growth. We also increased the commitments under the variable funding notes by $200 million to $3.2 billion.

Turning now to our cash flow for the quarter and our capital deployment strategy more broadly. There are several possible uses of our cash, which needs to be considered together and assess on a relative basis. They are not mutually exclusive. We consider investments in our revenue-generating asset base, our fleet, and these positions are based on long-term calculations on growth and return on investments.

Capital allocation requires that we are mindful of the balance between size and capacity to demand and return on asset. In making an investment decision on fleet, we consider the potential for a differentiated return on investment as between EVs and ICE vehicles as an example, whereby the return on EVs may prove higher because of elevated RPD, lower operating costs, and the possibility of extended depreciable life.

We also consider non-fleet capital expenditure, which mainly consists of information technology and infrastructure, all consistent with the strategy of improving customer experience and operational efficiency that Stephen spoke to earlier. Here again, we focus on ROI of these investments in terms of improving fleet deployment and customer experience.

As we have over the past several quarters, we consider the return of cash to shareholders. Given our net leverage governor of up to 1.5x and our current cash generating ability, we are in a position where we can invest in growth and return cash to shareholders without placing pressure on the balance sheet. As of April 21, we purchased approximately 55 million shares under the $2 billion plan with approximately $800 million remaining to spend. Before we exhaust the current plan, we will be approaching the Board with proposals around subsequent plans.

Turning now to some specific cash flow numbers for the quarter. Our adjusted operating cash flow was $677 million, our nonfleet CapEx was $29 million, and net fleet CapEx was $569 million, resulting in adjusted free cash flow of $79 million this quarter. As we rotate our older cars and broaden new or high-quality preowned cars, we fund those at about 20% equity. We generated sufficient cash flow to fund our fleet growth and the reduction in liquidity was related to share repurchases.

Let me explain for a moment on how I see cash flow playing out for the full year. We expect that cash taxes and working capital will be approximately 10% of EBITDA and that our non-fleet CapEx will be around $250 million to $300 million for the year. Given the investment in fleet we are making this year, we expect our net fleet CapEx to be between $1 billion to $1.5 billion, depending on market conditions to reflect the equity component of our fleet rejuvenation and growth investments. Bear in mind, this is mostly funded by the gains realized upon disposals of other vehicles, which are reflected in our reported depreciation and therefore, embedded in EBITDA.

We know that people are acutely focused on our view of EBITDA and cash flow once the market normalizes. As we have told you in the past, we continue to believe that at prepandemic demand levels and industry-wide depreciation rates, our normalized annual EBITDA generation would be approximately $1.5 billion, excluding initiatives such as the transition towards EVs, [supplying] a ridesharing fleets and our Carvana and Amex GBT relationships.

From that EBITDA baseline, we will normally expect free cash flow conversion of at least 70%. This is because once our aggregate fleet value and depreciation return to a more normal levels, we expect that EBITDA will adequately reflect the entirety of our fleet expense and net fleet CapEx will be minimal.

Finally, with a view forward and consistent with what we are seeing across the travel industry, the positive trend we saw in March is continuing into Q2, where month-to-day RPU is similar to the strength we saw in March. We generated 20% more EBITDA in March than we had originally expected due to fleet tightness and strong demand. We do not see any abatement of the limited vehicle supply, as Stephen mentioned earlier. With the current geopolitical environment impacting the supply chain constraints, I believe industry fleets will continue to be tight and that pricing and residual value will remain elevated as a result.

Q2 revenue has historically been higher than Q1 by about 20% due to seasonality, given the momentum we are seeing in our business, we expect our performance for Q2 to exceed Q1 by 30% to 35%.

With that, let's open the call for Q&A.

Question-and-Answer Session

Operator

[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Chris Woronka from Deutsche Bank.

Chris Woronka

Stephen, yes, there's a mention of the $1.5 billion kind of as a normalized EBITDA range, which I think most people think of as 2023 or beyond. I mean, as new CEO, what do you -- what are some of the kind of the opportunities and threats to that number?

Stephen Scherr

Yes, sure. So thanks, Chris. I appreciate the question. Kenny, in his prepared remarks, talked about normalized EBITDA in the context of '19 as a reference point. So let me come at it slightly different angle, which is let's look at current conditions kind of as a delta to where we think normal is. So let's look first at the demand side.

On the demand side, notwithstanding how elevated it is, we're still shy of where I think normal demand will sit. So you look at leisure in the RAC business, it's at about 90% of where it was in '19, so limited amount to see there. But if you look at corporate and you look at inbound, so these are international travelers coming to the United States, is considerable demand that can be recovered to get us to a normal state of affairs.

So thinking about corporate travel. Corporate is now running at about 63% of where it was in '19 and inbounds are running only at about 35%, and that will change as COVID measures and the like of entry into the United States will change. So on the demand side, there's still room, right, for improvement to get us to a normalized state.

Then you look at the supply side, right? Typically through fleet, and I think as we've said, more limited conditions around supply, much as we will get our fair share of it, I think, persist in through '23, maybe a bit beyond. And so there, I think as fleet comes on to more normalized levels, you'll see us grow our fleet but grow it in the context of demand that's there, so fleet will increase. I think we can sustain utilization at levels that we're seeing now in March and in through the second quarter.

Let's assume there's some softness in price, it's not going to stay as elevated. So if one assumes that we take a 20% or 25% reduction, right, to what we're looking at on rate and then get to more normalized depreciation, the fact is that at more modest margins, okay, we're going to produce $1.5 billion.

The upside to that, okay, because as Kenny referred to it, we haven't included, is look at both sources of incremental revenue and cost reductions. So we're not thinking about ridesharing to Uber growing or what we can sell through on an increased basis through Carvana or collaborative marketing efforts that are out there or for that matter, the benefit we're going to get as more electric vehicles come in and the RPU on those are higher than what we're seeing on ICE.

And on the cost side, much of what I talked about in the context of certain technology developments and the like, will have a better pricing engine. We'll take our out-of-service down. Cloud migration of our overall platform will generate meaningful cost reduction in the context of what we spend on older generation technology, so those are a bit of puts and takes. I'm just giving you kind of my own take looking both at supply/demand and what increment we can generate to there. And again, 2019 is a good gut check, but I just wanted to offer you a slightly different perspective than just to simply revert back to '19.

Chris Woronka

Yes. Stephen, very helpful. And just as a follow-up, like kind of on the fleet side, and you mentioned that the RPU of the things you're bringing in, which you have a lot of EVs coming into the fleet, does that make you reconsider wanting to get the total fleet even back to '19 levels even if demand gets there? Is there a case to be made that you could be smaller with different fleet because the fleet -- the cost of that fleet is going to look a little bit different? And so therefore, really totally zone in on RPU and not on matching the fleet to the demand, to the liquidity?

Stephen Scherr

Yes. I mean, my view on this is that this is managing a set of assets, okay, and sweating the ROA on your fleet. So unless focused on the aggregate amount of fleet, I'm more focused on making sure that I'm sizing fleet into demand. And that the composition of the fleet as between electric vehicle and ICE is taken into consideration in part because I think the ROA on the EVs will be higher. They will be higher because they attract a higher rate and they carry with them appreciably lower operating costs with respect to maintenance and otherwise.

And I think on the forward, there's more good to be had on depreciation of those vehicles because I think we're operating with very limited history. But in the end, I think the life of those vehicles will be longer and the depreciation less. So my point to you is that I'm not looking to go back to a prescribed fleet number. I want to grow fleet in the context of sweating the ROA, meeting the demand that's there and looking at the mix of fleet in the context of where I can harvest the greatest margin on the fleet itself.

Operator

And your next question comes from the line of John Healy from Northcoast Research.

John Healy

Big picture question for you, Stephen and Kenny. Just getting a lot of questions about where we're at in the cycle and what's happening with the economy. Would just love to get your view of how Hertz is thinking about the economy? And maybe how Hertz is different relative to historical periods as maybe we encounter some potential economic turbulence? So I would just love to hear your thoughts on kind of leading economic indicators and how you're planning the business? And maybe how the business might be more or less resistant to those pressures that come about cyclically?

Kenny Cheung

Hey, John, yes, it's Kenny, I'll try to answer this one first. So thanks for the question. A few things come to my mind as I think about your question right? The potential downturn, economic pressure. I'll say 2 things here, right? First and foremost, we can fleet up and down our fleet very, very quickly, unlike other travel and hospitality peers who can now with their fixed asset. The name of the game for us, regardless of any environment, recession or no recession or pressure, is to match fleet to demand, right below the demand curve, right, to maximize profit.

The second thing I'd say is we are a very nimble company, right? 70% of our cost base is variable and that provides flexibility as volume flexes up and down. And remember, this is combined with the fact that we have a very strong book of business off year, which is resilient as proven at the peak of the pandemic.

The second thing I'd say is that people talk about inflation, right? My view is we don't view inflation as necessary a bad thing for us as this creates more discipline across the industry in terms of pricing and asset allocation, which you can see currently.

The second thing I'd say is that in an inflationary environment, car rental is not a bad place to be at. As you're utilizing an asset purchase that today slash historical value and monetize them against the backdrop of rising rate environment.

And the last thing I'd say about inflation is that we continue to drive productivity, optimize business processes and drive operational efficiencies to offset that.

And then the last thing I'd say around the current environment is interest rates, right? As I mentioned in my prepared remarks, we have a really strong balance sheet. But if you think about debt profile, right, our debt stack, 70% of our total debt is fixed rate, so we are largely insulated from interest rate hikes. And we have caps in place as well on the VSN standpoint.

So long story short, while the current environment is dynamic, as you pointed out, our business model is resilient across a wide range of circumstances. And by the way, we are -- we've been battle-tested and we are students of the business. We analyze and study all aspects of the auto market. Since quite frankly, we participate in all aspects of it. So we are prepared for all scenarios.

Stephen Scherr

John, it's Steven. The one other perspective I'll offer you is that I think rental car -- the rental car industry and the travel industry more broadly is going to be the beneficiary of what I would describe as a delayed consumptive response, meaning if you look across a range of other industries, stimulus led to increased consumption in the back half of 2021. If you think about travel, travel has not had that opportunity just yet, largely by virtue of COVID and restrictions that have been in place.

If I look at our forward book of bookings in the summer, what it's suggesting to me is that we may see delayed consumptive patterns around travel, and we will be the beneficiary of that. And as I said in response to the question that I was answering for Chris, just look at where we've yet to pick up the demand that indicates there's some delay to it. So think about what's left on corporate demand to come through. And impressively, what's left on the inbound international traveler to the U.S., which is a very profitable segment for us.

And so I think there's an element here where stimulus came through, we saw that in the consumptive behavior of consumers, but it didn't necessarily materialize in the way in which I think it will in this summer. And so that's just a broad perspective to offer you in the context of what the forward holds for the industry.

John Healy

Great. That's really helpful. And just 1 follow-up question, Kenny. Could you run us through the math on the view on fleet cost for the year again? Was that a -- were those just U.S. comments? Or was that company-wide? And I was just hoping to try to sketch out kind of the $175 to $225 number because it's, to be in size, maybe a number like 300 at the end of the year?

Kenny Cheung

Okay. So yes, so let me go a bit deeper since I'm sure I'll get more questions on depreciation, so I'll hit it right now. So if you think about this quarter, right, call it negative 40. If you bifurcate between gross depreciation, which is simply your recorded depreciation of the vehicle, and then your gains on sale, if you bifurcate that, you're roughly $223 of gross depreciation per car per unit per month and $263 of gains per car per month per unit, that's negative $40, right?

So as you work your way into, call it, Q2 now, your fully depreciated vehicles will decrease, as I mentioned in the prepared remarks. And then essentially, if you do the math, right? If Q2 was, call it, $100 or $120 and change, then that means your back half will normalize, right, closer to the $300 mark in terms of depreciation. So -- and then the number I've given for the full year, that is a global number.

Operator

And next up, we have Stephen Grambling from Goldman Sachs.

Stephen Grambling

My first question is a big picture question for Stephen. There are a lot of views about what the future of mobility looks like. And obviously, there are a lot of moving parts. But as you were attracted to this opportunity, what was your own framework for what that future looks like over the next, call it, 3 to 5 years? And how are you balancing moving the company towards that view, while also staying nimble if the future goes in a bit of a different direction?

Stephen Scherr

Sure. Thanks, Stephen. I appreciate it. So I'll answer that on a couple of levels. First of all, my view was that Hertz sits with an extraordinary brand, perhaps a brand that was worthy of an even better business, which I think we can build, and that doesn't often happen.

In the context of mobility, there are enough really impressive players that are in and around those changes where I think Hertz can align itself quite comfortably. And we're already doing that, obviously, in the context of Tesla and Uber and Carvana and the like. And I think there's more to do there.

For me, the forward path around mobility is all about us thinking now about the way in which we diversify the composition of fleet and equally think about diversification of our customer channels. So in the context of fleet, obviously, it's about combustion engine and electric vehicle, and what that will mean and what that carries, okay?

On the customer side, it means not just playing direct, but also thinking about corporate and equally ridesharing and the forward view on what that might mean for fleet management overall.

In the context of corporate, there's an interesting developing phenomenon, which is that the electric vehicle is turning out to be a great appeal to our corporate customer. They need to rent cars to their employees, but they're equally through EV, satisfying their own ESG and carbon footprint objectives. And that's sort of an interesting dynamic there.

On the Uber side and translate that over through to Lyft or to a variety of other fleet players, imagine where Hertz is in a position, in this case, to take EVs and rent them, changing the consistency of product delivery and the economic dynamics to the driver, what could we do with other fleets and other fleet management in the context of electric vehicles there. And so there's a forward path, right, that we can achieve.

I think all of these is meant to be achieved for a company that sits on an extraordinary mine of data, we have yet to sort of tap into it, and we haven't consumed it and analyzed it such that we can find ourselves in a much better position to sort of manage a fleet and serve interests that are ever-changing: electric fleets, corporate customers and the like. And so I think the forward here is really quite real and our ability to do it in ways that embed existing technology.

So think about the mobile phone. The phone can be used in a way to meaningfully improve the customer experience of an individual. We can now geo-locate cars. We can access the car. We can use the phone as the key fob to start the car. By the way, we can identify you because your identification on the phone will change. All of that changes the dynamic of what Hertz can do with the rental business today with a forward view to mobility.

So the younger demographic need not rent a car where Hertz has a location. We can preposition a car for them in another location. They can access it. It can be a seamless proposition and all of that is using existing technology and embedding it in the customer journey. So I think there are many ways that we can tap into the forward mobility prospect and the ability to do that with others is quite real. And that was and is an exciting proposition for me, and I think holds the promise of realizing consistent and impressive financial returns to the company.

Stephen Grambling

That's helpful and interesting. As a follow-up on the fleet side of your response, is there any sense for how electric vehicle pricing has trended as you've rolled out more? And you kind of alluded to this, but maybe it's too early to really see this in terms of differences in uptake between consumers versus business customers? And then how you're just generally thinking about the pricing umbrella of these vehicles versus the base they become more ubiquitous?

Stephen Scherr

Sure. Well, I think what we're seeing in the early introduction of electric vehicles into the fleet is consistent with what we had analytically modeled in making the decision that the ROA on this segment of the fleet was attractive. That is, we're seeing elevated pricing certainly into RAC and equally into ridesharing.

On the ridesharing side, it carries the extra benefit of those rentals being longer, 4 weeks. It means our touch point into those cars is appreciably less, meaning we won't touch the car 3, 4, 5 times in the way in which we would in the normal fleet. So the operating cost associated with that is much lower.

The maintenance, while it's early, the maintenance is lower. We expect those maintenance costs to continue to be lower and utilization, as an expression of demand, in both the corporate segment as well as in ridesharing and RAC would suggest to us that the demand is really impressive. I mean we're seeing waiting lists among Uber drivers to take these cars, and we're seeing very, very quick uptake, again, at high utilization levels across the consumer and the corporate side.

Kenny Cheung

Hey, it's Kenny. I mean, from a financial standpoint, I'm excited to say that the Teslas coming in is validating our long-term view of the EV economics being accretive to ICE vehicles. So our view was having a first-mover advantage here is invaluable here as the learnings are improving our daily operations and giving us a huge competitive advantage.

Stephen Scherr

Steve, I would also say one other thing, which is if one harbors a view that there will be forward softness for a variety of reasons, right, in price, I think the EVs present as they grow within our fleet, a pretty defensive floor, if you will, as to where that pricing will go, meaning we have a first-mover advantage. They are a scarce component of the fleet just on a relative basis. Therefore, the ability to hold price, I think, is higher. And so it's just an exciting proposition for us as we take more of these vehicles in and look to partner with more OEMs on the intake.

Operator

Next up, we have Brian Johnson from Barclays.

Brian Johnson

I just want to talk a little bit more about the depreciation, in particular, around not just used car sales and pricing outlook, but used car acquisitions as I'm sure you're probably aware there's some well-known used car resellers who were seen by the market in their most recent earnings results for buying used cars earlier in the year or late last year 1 price and then selling them in another.

So 2 questions. One, can you give us some sense of how your activity in the used car acquisition market was, how that factors into your depreciation outlook? And then number two, it's comforting that you're guiding to about 110 next quarter, the 1,500 number, very similar to what's in our model and other analyst referenced. We do have depreciation of normalizing as part of that. But how do investors get some comfort that as used car prices moderate slightly, there isn't an overshoot in your depreciation numbers?

Stephen Scherr

So why don't I let Kenny start and then we'll come back.

Kenny Cheung

I think one of the questions that I think you're alluding to, Brian, is that how do we think about a normalized depreciation rate going forward, right? As you know, right now, the back half, the exit rate close to $300 as I alluded to earlier. Here's how I think about it, right? When you look at depreciation, it's unfair to look at it in silo, right? You have to look at it in conjunction with other dynamics. RPD, residuals, cap costs, just to name a few, right? So let me give you a quick stat.

It's not a coincidence that RPD, residual cap cost right now, at this very moment, is all up by 30% to 40% versus prepandemic, right? So simple math is, if DPU, right, use an example, right, went up to $500, you may say, "Wow, that's really high." But RPU falls to 2,000, I'd take that economics all day and all night, right? So I think it's important to really look at depreciation in conjunction with other variables. And that goes back to the point about return on assets that Stephen mentioned, right? So I don't know, Stephen, if you have anything else to add on?

Stephen Scherr

No, no. I mean I think the point that Kenny is making is the right one, which is, obviously, we need to be mindful of depreciation and think about it in the context of how we manage the fleet, and I'll come back to that.

But I think when Kenny and I manage the business, we're looking at a dashboard that has multiple indicators on it, okay? We're looking at the rate we're charging. We're looking at utilization. We're looking at depreciation and you need to take those all in tandem.

Now my adherence to sort of ROA as a good framework is we want to sweat the asset. And therefore, all of these are inputs to the return that the fleet is ultimately going to yield to us. Now in the context of our own behavior in the used car market, we are, at the moment, both a buyer and a seller, okay? So we are buying low mileage, high-quality used cars because the returns are attractive in a market that's displaying the kind of demand relative to supply that it is.

At the same time, we are looking at selling portions of our fleet because they are high mileage cars, they're of deteriorating value. It's not a product that we want to put a customer in. And when we do the math and we do the analytics, harvesting at the current elevated residual level or car price on that through Carvana or any other channel is in excess of the present value of the rental revenue that we're otherwise going to take in. That's the kind of dynamic we need to go through as both a buyer and a seller. And so I think that answers your question, but that's how we're thinking about this more broadly.

Brian Johnson

Okay. So you're not worried that you bought -- basically what you're saying is used car acquisitions are an alternative in a tight market to new car acquisitions and can follow depreciation curve? And obviously, you're renting them in the meantime?

Stephen Scherr

I think that's right. And I think that equally, I'm not standing in a static position, meaning if we start to see the market move, okay, so something happens in the relationship, if you will, between new car prices and where we're taking in expensive vehicles and what we're doing with respect to the residual on the use, my view is that it's unlikely to move at a beta of 1. And equally, it's not going to move on an overnight basis.

And so because we study this all the time, we're going to act, right, on where those numbers sit. So the calculus that we do about you keep the car or do you sell the car is in the context of a spot price relative to where we can earn rental money on the property itself. So we're going to be quick on this should these dynamics change. But again, I think ROA is the broader context within which to think of it.

Operator

And our next question comes from the line of Ian Zaffino from Oppenheimer.

Ian Zaffino

As far as -- and I know you guys mentioned Carvana saying you got an uptick, is there any more color you could maybe give us surrounding that? Maybe how much was the uptick? Or do you expect to see continued upticks? And how many vehicles do you think you could actually move through that channel? How do we think about that?

Stephen Scherr

Sure. Well, I think we need to stay away from the specifics of the arrangement for a host of different competitive reasons, but let me shed a little bit of light on it. What we're seeing in Carvana is a material uptick to what we could harvest in the wholesale market. Carvana, therefore, provides us with an incremental channel alongside the Hertz used car retail channel that we have to sort of provide us with really interesting economics on the sale of the used car fleet.

I'd also point out, particularly relevant to the last question and the last exchange, anytime you avail yourself of an incremental channel to move used cars, you therefore provide yourself with added flexibility to be quick and agile as and to the extent that there's changing circumstance in the market or pricing. But what we are seeing through Carvana is perhaps more elevated in terms of volumes than what we had initially imagined. And it's a good, robust channel for us that's suiting us in the context of materially elevated prices relative to what the wholesale market provides.

Kenny Cheung

Ian, this is Kenny. Just to kind of dimensionize potential, how you think about volume, right? In a normal year, usually, we sell 1/3 of our vehicles through our retail channel and 2/3 through the wholesale auction channel. Carvana is not cannibalizing the retail side of the house, which is the highest margin for us, right, from a disposition standpoint. It's really taken away from the wholesale auction side. So again, it's accretive for our business and our margins.

Ian Zaffino

Okay. Great. And then as a follow-up question, I know we had a nice discussion about ROA and investment in either the business or the fleet. But I know you still have about $800 million left in your buyback. But based on kind of like your leverage ratios that you're talking about, you can take on incremental leverage just to reach your target. And with that excess call it cash or capacity, where do buybacks fit in that?

And again, I know you have some left on there, but are they mutually exclusive? And how do we exactly think about that going forward?

Stephen Scherr

Sure. So let me just say the following. First, in the context of what we were doing in the first quarter, we were in kind of an elongated blackout, and therefore, what we were doing by way of volume was a prescribed volume. Obviously, the opportunity for us to recalibrate the volume and reevaluate the volume of shares that we'll repurchase happens now, occasioned by the fact that we're having this earnings call and the earnings release, and therefore, we are free to sort of recalibrate the volume that we want to do, and we will do that.

And my view is we will exhaust the existing program, and we will roll into a new program as we pick up just the aggregate amount with among the management team and the Board. So that's just the mechanic of it.

As a philosophical matter, I think repurchase stands alongside what Kenny had articulated, which is we have opportunity to invest in fleet. We have opportunity to invest in the business to render it more operationally efficient. And we have the opportunity, particularly in this market, to look at share repurchase, and all 3 are always on the table in the context of yielding attractive returns. And so that's the philosophy we'll continue to take. I think given the largest of the market in which we're in, we can do all 3. We will do all 3. And I think we'll take up the pace of that repurchase now that we have earnings behind us.

Kenny Cheung

And your math is right. We're 1 turn away from a governor number, so this shows you that we have a lot of optionality and flexibility when it comes to capital allocation.

Operator

And that was our last question. I will turn the call over back to our CEO, Stephen Scherr for closing remarks. Sir?

Stephen Scherr

Okay. So I want to thank you all for participating today. I hope that today's call provided you with a better sense of the progress we've made, the dynamics we're seeing in the industry and the market and a better appreciation for the improved financial condition and prospects for the company. I look forward to sharing further updates with you on our next call and obviously meeting and visiting with many of you now sitting in my new seat.

So with that, we thank you again for joining us

--- Q2 2022 ---
Welcome to Hertz Global Holdings Second Quarter 2022 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] I would like to remind you that this morning's call is being recorded by the company.

I would now like to turn the call over to your host, Johann Rawlinson, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Johann Rawlinson

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. By now, you should have our earnings press release and associated financial information. We've also provided slides to accompany our conference call, which can be accessed on our website.

I want l to remind you that certain statements made on this call contain forward-looking information. Forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of performance and by their nature, are subject to inherent uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially. Any forward-looking information relayed on this call speaks only as of today's date and the company undertakes no obligation to update that information to reflect changed circumstances. Additional information concerning these statements is contained in our earnings press release and in the Risk Factors and forward-looking Statement section of our 2021 Form 10-K and our second quarter 2022 Form 10-Q filed with the SEC. All these documents are available on the Investor Relations section of the Hertz website.

Today, we'll use certain non-GAAP financial measures, which are reconciled with GAAP numbers in our earnings press release. We believe that our profitability and performance is better demonstrated using these non-GAAP measures.

On the call this morning, we have Stephen Scherr, our Chief Executive Officer; and Kenny Cheung, our Chief Financial Officer.

I'll now turn the call over to Stephen.

Stephen Scherr

Thank you, Johann. Good morning and welcome to our second quarter earnings call. Our financial results for the second quarter were strong, reflecting the continued strength of our underlying business, positive market forces and high demand for our services. Revenue was $2.3 billion, up 25% year-over-year, and up 30% quarter-over-quarter and adjusted corporate EBITDA was a second quarter record of $764 million.

Adjusted free cash flow in the quarter was $484 million, with the company demonstrating increased free cash flow conversion from the first quarter. In the quarter, our performance facilitated continued investment in fleet and non-fleet CapEx as well as the repurchase of $890 million of stock through open market purchases, completing our initial $2 billion authorization.

We also initiated purchases under a new $2 billion Board authorization, which we announced on June 15 of this year. Overall, I am very pleased with our performance and the momentum of the business coming out of the second quarter with strong results across the U.S., Canada, Europe and APAC. Demand for our services remains elevated, as each of leisure, corporate and ride sharing continued to demonstrate improvement.

Getting into the specifics of the quarter, our operational performance was strong overall, and importantly showed sequential month-to-month improvement as the team capitalized on the heightened pace of the summer travel season. We achieved fleet utilization of just under 80% in the quarter, 5 points higher than in the first quarter, with June representing the highest utilization month for the year thus far at over 80%.

Similarly, our monthly revenue per unit hit a June record of $1,667. For the quarter RPU was $1,606 and RPD of $67. Both metrics were up over last year. I would point out that we achieved these results despite elevated auto recall activity in the quarter, which we estimate depressed our utilization by 1 percentage point and negatively impacted revenue by $15 million to $20 million. Looking ahead, we are seeing the momentum built over the course of the second quarter carrying through to the busy summer season of late July into August.

With respect to EBITDA and free cash flow generation each represents a second quarter record for the company. And we're impressive notwithstanding upward inflationary pressure on expenses, particularly labor costs. Although much of these inflationary costs are being passed through in elevated RPD, we nonetheless continue to drive expense discipline, including a reduction in our reliance on more expensive third-party labor sources.

All of these operational improvements, which are delivering clear results for our shareholders, are rooted in our enhanced focus on driving an ROA mentality in all that we do. The cornerstone of this approach is how we view and manage our fleet. Our second quarter results reflect our ability to run higher utilization, while protecting rate. Put simply, we are generating more EBITDA and more cash flow with fewer cars.

On an ongoing basis, this early mindset means that our fleet decisions are dynamic and are guided by changing economic circumstances and customer demand. By sweating our assets, we are making careful decisions regarding additions to the fleet and equally prudent decisions about the volume and manner by which we dispose of vehicles. And we will continue to do so.

Running the fleet tight and inside expected demand curves has and we expect will continue to produce higher free cash flow on the back of lower net fleet CapEx. This was on display in the second quarter. As demand for travel across airlines, hotels and rental cars remain strong. And as I noted, we expect the balance of the summer to continue to carry sustained demand for our services, with strong pricing resulting from ongoing supply demand dynamics.

Our strong performance in June carried forward into July. We are not seeing a pullback in forward demand as reservations for August and September are currently in line with seasonal expectations. In all, we remain confident in the fundamentals of our business. That said like all consumer businesses, we are attuned to external indicators of future economic activity, particularly when they don't comport with what we are currently seeing in our business.

Our business offers us immense flexibility to quickly adjust to changing demand. The used car market is liquid and provides us with a valuable option to buy and sell cars to meet marginal demand on short notice. This complements our strong OEM relationships, which ensure a steady baseline supply of new cars, which keep the fleet current and young.

It is also a distinguishing characteristic of the rental car business as our assets can be bought and sold quickly, they can be moved to deeper pockets of demand and managed with flexibility to maximize returns. Beginning in the second quarter, we challenged ourselves as to the level of fleet we would target for the balance of the year, taking stock of high current residual pricing on used cars and questions about more modest demand late in the year.

With the possibility of more seasonal demand patterns in Q3 and Q4, rather than outsized growth that we experienced coming out of COVID, we are availing ourselves of the option to buy and sell cars quickly that is unique to our business, rather than preemptively remain at elevated fleet levels. We are choosing to safeguard rate and optimize utilization so as to generate higher EBITDA and cash flow. The result is that by fiscal year-end, our fleet size will approximate where we opened in 2022.

If elevated demand were to persist, we will flex the fleet quickly and responsibly as the spot market for low mileage good condition used cars remains available to us. This approach also carries the ancillary benefit of reducing the average fleet age, which has already been lowered by 2.5 months year-to-date, as well as freeing up maintenance capacity to address out-of-service vehicles.

To put numbers to all of this, you will recall that on our last earnings call, we provided a range of net fleet CapEx of $1 billion to $1.5 billion. We view that number now to be between $750 million and $1 billion. All of that said for the balance of the third quarter, we expect to continue to benefit from a market that is supportive of our business, continued high RPU on the back of high utilization and elevated rate.

As others have noted, travel trends relating to the recovery from COVID are prevailing over the risks of an economic downturn. Until that equation changes, we will continue to benefit from the former and we'll be ready for the latter.

Let me now turn to progress on certain business and operational initiatives that are growing contributors to revenue growth and cost containment. On the TNC side, Uber and Lyft driver demand for both EV and ICE vehicles remains strong in the quarter and we have nearly doubled our TNC fleet size year-over-year.

With respect to EV specifically, over 15,000 Uber drivers to date have rented a Tesla from Hertz, at a minimum rate of $334 per week, comprising over half a million transaction days. Driver feedback has been positive and they remain drawn to the opportunity as gasoline prices remain elevated and demand for the service among Uber customers is strong. Our Tesla's enabled Uber drivers could differentiate themselves and to improve upon the quality of their riders experience, and that translates into higher earnings for them.

We're also excited that on the back of our recent success, we have now expanded our Tesla Uber partnership into Canada. With respect to electric vehicles in our airport and off airport fleet, we've recorded over 160,000 transaction days using Tesla cars booked at premium rates that are typically $30 to $35 in excess of comparable average rates.

Customers are enjoying the Tesla EV experience, which is being expressed in NPS scores that are 10 points higher than our global average. We are continuing to expand the electric vehicle offering through the regular delivery of Tesla cars and now Polestar. We are also negotiating with other OEMs to purchase electric vehicles at attractive price points. What's more, as we accumulate additional data on the Tesla fleet, we expect to see higher residual values than originally anticipated.

On the corporate side of our rental business, we continue to work with Amex GBT to enhance our share across its customer portfolio. For example, as corporate travel has been rebounding, June generated more than 2x the revenue we recorded from Amex GBT in January, and we expect this momentum to continue.

In addition, we expect to leverage Amex GBT's acquisition of Egencia, a corporate travel management firm to accelerate our capture of the profitable mid market travel segment. Overall, we anticipate the corporate segment to grow, particularly as more companies return to travel.

With regard to the disposition of vehicles, we have sold thousands of vehicles on the Carvana platform during the first half of the year. We expect further growth from here. This disposition channel remains active, provides us with granular market intelligence on pricing dynamics, away from more conventional indices, and perhaps most importantly, offers us a material premium to prices we would otherwise realize through wholesale channels. Our ambition is to increase the use of Carvana and similar channels as our systems around fleet pricing and management continues to mature.

I also want to speak about technology, which is obviously a significant area of non-fleet investment for us. As an example of technology investment benefiting financial performance, we are making progress with telematics. In the Americas, over 285,000 of our cars are now connected. That's around 75% of the fleet. We are on track to have nearly all of the Americas fleet connected by year-end.

Telematics are promoting higher fleet uptime, reducing theft and bad debt, improving damage monitoring, and providing for more accurate fuel measurements. By example, repossession recovery times are reduced by 50% on connected vehicles at an RPU of more than $1,600 per month, that time savings matters. As we mature the program, we will add more features to leverage telematics data to improve our inventory management and planning practices.

Lastly, regarding technology broadly and our migration to the cloud, as I have said before, this is foundational to the company. As we progress our move to the cloud over the next 18 to 24 months, we will operate more efficiently and realize very tangible cost reduction as it relates to expenses associated with our legacy platforms and physical data centers.

Operating with SaaS providers like Oracle as an example and running our business in a safer and more cost effective cloud environment will reduce operating expenses and lower our reliance on third-party consultancy. Together we estimate all of these business and operational initiatives in their mature state, both on the revenue and cost side can contribute in excess of $500 million of incremental EBITDA not now reflected in the business.

As I turn the call to Kenny, I'll close by saying that I am increasingly confident in our ability to execute on our core business plan and excited by our strategic initiatives, which position Hertz for success in an evolving mobility ecosystem. As we work through an extremely busy summer season, I would also like to recognize members of the Hertz team for their tireless efforts and especially acknowledge the teams in the field as they look after customers and produce increasing net promoter scores and positive financial results.

Now I'll turn it over to Kenny to walk you through our results in more detail.

Kenny Cheung

Thank you, Stephen, and good morning, everyone. As Stephen mentioned, we had a very strong second quarter, and I continue to focus on asset yield paid off. Our adjusted EPS was $1.22 and adjusted corporate EBITDA was a second quarter record of $764 million, reflecting a margin of 33%. Revenue was $2.3 billion, up 25% from 2021 and up 30% sequentially, well above the historical seasonal uptick of 20%.

While auto recalls burdened utilization in the quarter, we also experienced a modestly negative foreign currency impact, mainly from the euro conversion to dollar, impacting revenue by about $20 million, or roughly 1% quarter-over-quarter. That notwithstanding, our results reflected our operational focus and price discipline.

Monthly RPU was above $1,600 for the quarter, in line with March as we exited Q1. We experienced an almost 20% increase in volume compared to last year, driven by continued strong demand in leisure rentals, corporate and international inbound customer demand have yet to fully return to pre-COVID levels, but have shown improvement.

International inbound travel, for example, only began to benefit from relaxation of U.S COVID testing requirements and mass mandates late in the second quarter. However, we did see the volume gaps began to close during the quarter. Corporate volume was at 70% of 2019 levels in Q2 with international inbound at about 40%, both modestly up versus Q1.

Depreciation per unit per month for Q2 was $71, which was lower than the average we estimated on our last call. This lower-than-anticipated depreciation was largely driven by fewer cars purchased in the quarter as we maintain tighter fleet management and higher-than-anticipated residual values, including on EVs, as well as higher than expected gains in the quarter, producing an offset to the gross depreciation line.

Let me stay on residual value of used cars for a moment. In the quarter, we witnessed continuous strength in the residual value of our fleet, exceeding our previous expectations as the market for used cars remain strong. This provided an exceptional opportunity to monetize older and fully depreciated cars.

In addition, the shift of several thousand car sales from the wholesale market to the Carvana channel enhanced our selling price by approximately 5% and optimized inventory turns. The result of these efforts is reflected in our strong free cash flow as well as in the ABS equity cushion, which was about $2.5 billion on June 30. This level, despite our harvesting of gains by vehicle sales, was approximately unchanged from March 31 due to strong residual values, accelerated ABS depreciation rates and deliberate fleet purchase decisions.

While residual values remained higher than we expected in Q2, weve experienced some modest reduction in the first week of Q3. As we indicated last quarter, we would expect values to soften a bit from here, but our balance sheet and ABS structures remain exceptionally well-positioned, and we will continue to prioritize car sales to optimize channels as we adjust fleet.

As Stephen mentioned, we now believe net fleet CapEx for the year will be between $750 million and $1 billion. This change will have a dollar-for-dollar impact on free cash flow. Also, we believe our fleet rejuvenation efforts, including our rotation from older to newer vehicles will result in Q3 monthly DPU of $145 to $165 and full year monthly DPU of $75 to $125. These estimates are lower than the numbers we provided to you in April and reflects stronger-than-expected residual values, which have contributed to higher-than-expected gains on sale as well as fewer expected additions to the fleet.

Turning to expenses, which remain an area of intense focus for us. In terms of operating costs, which are largely variable, we incurred $1.2 billion in Q2. Although this represents a 24% increase versus Q2 of last year, that increase is to be understood in the context of a 27% increase in transactional activity over the same period, reflecting modest operating leverage in the business.

As for the primary drivers of the year-on-year increase, we experienced higher cost and transportation and fuel, reflecting the effect of broader inflationary trends as well as in maintenance on order fleet. We expect maintenance expense to moderate as our fleet continues to grow younger. On the forward, we anticipate additional operating leverage as more expensive third-party labor strategically replaced with Hertz employees and we further reduced maintenance expense as we rejuvenate the fleet and continue to grow our number of EVs.

In terms of SG&A, we incurred expense in Q2 of $257 million, representing a return to a more normalized level of marketing spend as well as higher profit sharing and share-based compensation relative for post-emergence activity last year. These three categories comprise the entirety of the year-over-year increase.

Let me now turn to our capital structure and liquidity. Our balance sheet remains very strong, and we ended the quarter with a leverage of 0.6x. At June 30, our liquidity was $2.5 billion comprised of $1 billion in unrestricted cash and $1.5 billion available under the revolving credit facility.

During the quarter, we increased our RCF capacity by $450 million to $1.9 billion, creating additional financial flexibility and enhancing our corporate liquidity. We also increased the commitments under our variable funding notes by $843 million to over $3.8 billion. We allocated nearly $1 billion towards capital investments and share repurchases during the quarter and still maintain liquidity that's broadly in line with the previous quarter.

Turning now to cash flow and capital allocation for the quarter. Adjusted operating cash flow was $585 million for Q2, approximately an 80% conversion from EBITDA. Our non-fleet CapEx was $24 million for the quarter and our net fleet CapEx was $77 million, reflecting our disciplined pace of fleet growth. Our adjusted free cash flow in the quarter was a strong $484 million.

During the quarter, we repurchased nearly 47 million shares, completing the initial $2 billion program announced in November 2021. As you know, we announced the authorization of a new $2 billion program on June 15. And through July 21, we repurchased approximately 9 million shares with $1.8 billion remaining under the new plan.

We believe that our strong balance sheet and improved operational position will continue to permit the company to generate sufficient cash to meet our capital priorities, which are investing in our fleet, funding our strategic initiatives and returning excess cash to shareholders.

Finally, in terms of tone of our business, as I noted earlier, we saw a relaxation of testing and mass requirements for travelers to the U.S. late in Q2, which has produced a tailwind for international inbound demand. We are now starting to see elevated inbound activity in Europe from the U.S. and vice versa. We are also experiencing strength in Canada as weve emphasized our off-airport business and strength in certain parts of APAC business as economies have opened.

In terms of what current activity means for performance, I will reiterate what Stephen said earlier. As we sit here today, we continue to see strong demand for our services. In fact, over the last few weeks, we have days that hit post-pandemic records for vehicles on rent in each of the U.S., Canada and Europe.

July is proving to be a very strong month for us, even stronger on RPU than June. Looking out over the third quarter, I will point out that Q3 is typically a seasonally stronger quarter than Q2, with July the strongest month of the three. We currently expect that seasonality to persist with Q3 benefiting from the elevated levels of RPD in Q2 carrying forward and a seasonal increase in volume consistent with historical patterns relative to Q2.

Finally, as an observation on the industry, we do not see any near-term material relief from limited new car supply. And therefore, we believe our fleet will continue to be tight, like that of the industry generally. And as a result, that pricing and residual values will remain strong.

With that, let's open the call for Q&A.

Question-and-Answer Session

Operator

[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Chris Woronka from Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.

Chris Woronka

Yes. Hey. Good morning, guys. Stephen, can you maybe talk a little bit more about the modifications you made to the fleet plan to reduce the CapEx estimates so substantially? Just maybe a little more detail there and the thought process that went into that?

Stephen Scherr

Sure, sure. Thanks a lot, Chris. So as I said in the prepared remarks, we are going to carry a fleet at year-end that will approximate where we began the year, which was sort of approaching half a million cars. Obviously, that will be down from a current peak as we carry fleet right now to sort of meet the summer surge of demand. And so over the course of this year, I think it's to be expected that we will kind of buy and sell roughly 300,000 cars aside.

And if you look at what we buy, it will sort of trend 2:1 new cars to newer used or good condition used cars. And so that in and of itself, I would say it is a bit of a departure in philosophy from where we've been in the past. Meaning, in the past, this company had kind of locked in on a fleet number at the beginning of the year and sort of held at it and stayed long on fleet, notwithstanding where demand or where demand sort of was expressed. And so we relied exclusively on that.

I think we were ignoring a valuable option, which is we do have an option to go into the used car market both to sell and buy cars to meet marginal demand. So make no mistake, we are going to be fundamental buyers of new cars as we rejuvenate the fleet, but the swing factor here is really going to be expressed in the up and down in what we do in the used car market.

And so with questions about what demand will look like in the back half yet continued strong demand here, our view is that we ought to run on the short and not the long side of fleet. And where demand materializes higher than seasonal expectations, so higher in the third quarter, then we will in fleet, and we can do that kind of within a 30-day window where we can go out just as we did this summer and buy good quality used cars to sort of meet demand that's there. I think that puts us in a much better place.

Now we are not forecasting a falloff in demand. Again, we are expecting seasonal growth. We are just managing our fleet to a level that is not sized upfront to sort of post-COVID excessive growth forecast that we're there. We will run short into fleet, again, inside the demand curve and look to the unique option we have. The rental car business, Hertz included, carries this unique option relative to other industries in the travel space, meaning the airlines cannot sort of move that quickly, right, to sort of generate supply to meet demand, higher or lower. Hotels can't move hotel rooms around, they can't get in and out of rooms sort of quickly. But we can and we can avail ourselves of this unique option to play in the used car market. We did it this summer and we can do it at the back half of the year, again, depending upon where demand expresses.

The whole point of this sort of shift in strategy is that I think we can sell cars now at elevated prices given where residuals are. We are more likely to be buyers of those cars later at lower prices. And all the while, we will present with a lower [technical difficulty] of those cars later at lower prices and all the while, we will present with a lower net fleet CapEx. We can preserve rate, preserve higher utilization and maintain EBITDA and elevated free cash flow. And I think that's sort of a good solid strategy for us to follow in the context of how to manage fleet against an uncertain forward.

Chris Woronka

Yes. Thanks, Stephen. Very helpful. And then a follow-up, if I could, kind of relate to that. I guess where we see the fleet plan and we know demand overall is very strong, you've given us a lot of detail on what you're doing with EVs and the Ubers and such. Is there any shift in kind of strategic direction in terms of business you're pursuing? You talked about Amex. I guess the question is, are you over time, wanting to do less, I guess, hand to hand combat at some of the airports where at some point pricing can maybe normalize? Is that a strategic shift or not?

Stephen Scherr

Well, I would not read any of this as in any way kind of an abandonment of the classic business that you see on or off-airport locations. The way I would characterize what we are doing is twofold. One, I think there's inherent benefit in drawing out multiple channels of customers and not relying on kind of the RAC business as a monolith.

What that means is we need to play hard not just for the conventional RAC business and leisure travel, we also need to play hard for deeper penetration of corporate travel and the TNC business is meaningful incremental demand potential that to this point had not been realized. So this is about pursuing diversified channels of demand than it is about an abandonment or withdrawal from any one particular channel.

I'd also say to you that the ability to pursue multiple demand channels is predicated on carrying a more diversified fleet because the interest that each of those customer channels have may be differentiated one to the next. So for example, having electric vehicles as a growing component of the fleet in its overall composition is playing well in the corporate sector and playing well in P&C.

Corporates want to satisfy their own sort of carbon footprint objectives, so they're compelling employees to get into electric vehicles, therefore, there's incremental demand. TNC, given where gas prices are and the quality of what a Hertz car means to the earnings power of an Uber driver, wants to sort of place their drivers into electric vehicles.

So it's a combination of multiple channels of demand using different composition of fleet, right, to sort of give ourselves a greater ability to capture pockets of demand and have the agility to move fleet around in and throughout those channels.

Chris Woronka

Thank you.

Stephen Scherr

Sure.

Operator

And I show our next question comes from the line of Ian Zaffino from Oppenheimer. Please go ahead.

Ian Zaffino

Hi, great. Thank you very much. Great quarter, guys.

Stephen Scherr

Thank you.

Ian Zaffino

Kenny, just as far as the cost pressures youre seeing here from inflation, maybe talk about leverage you have at your disposal to manage those and to address those costs. And then also share count, if you have that at quarter end? Thanks.

Kenny Cheung

Hey, Ian. Hey. Thanks for the questions. So, yes, let me remind you that about 70% of our cost is variable, right? These expenses will adjust as fleet size changes. And as Stephen mentioned, this is a unique feature of the car rental industry as we can fleet up and down pretty quickly, right? In terms of managing cost, right, we are obsessed with operating leverage. It's the thing we think about each and every day. And we have multiple levers that we can pull.

Let me give you some tangible examples, right? On the labor front, as I mentioned, we are replacing expensive third-party labor with Hertz badge and FTEs, and that arbitrage would be flowing through the P&L going forward. On the maintenance side, in addition to increasing mechanics to repair vehicles in-house, we are currently working extremely hard to rejuvenate our fleet and that will improve maintenance expense over time.

And personally, I'm extremely excited about getting more EVs this year, right? The EV economic has proven to be extremely accretive to our business, and that would also improve maintenance expense as well. Out-of-service, we are working extremely hard on out-of-service. And this will drive a few things, Ian: rentable fleet, utilization and drive more revenue, which ultimately drives scale and leverage as a percent of revenue, the expenses will go down.

Stephen talked about tech plays, right, telematics, and that's going to be huge for us as well. Right now, we're about 75% tagged up. And by the end of the year, we'll be 100%. And that will really help on a few folds: theft, bad debt, damage recovery, service efficiencies and fuel recovery as well. Now we are also working very hard on technology plays, and we expect to see long-term benefits from that. And as you think about on-premise, the cloud conversion as well as legacy system refresh. So long story short, this is a key area of focus for us and will continue to be for the management team as we can match both fleet and expenses to demand.

Ian Zaffino

Okay. Thank you. And then if I could, just as a follow-up, on Carvana, you talked about that a lot now. Now that we're kind of through a couple of months, quarters, can you maybe tell us how large maybe that channel can become for you or maybe like the realized premium that you're seeing or that we should expect, just so we could conceptualize the value of that agreement.

Stephen Scherr

Sure.

Ian Zaffino

And then also just ending quarter share count. Thanks.

Stephen Scherr

Yes. So I leave Kenny to give you the quarter end share count. But on Carvana, we are realizing something in the neighborhood of about a 5% premium to what we otherwise sell cars in the wholesale market. And this is obviously very attractive. And the view is that we can and will continue to grow this. I mean this should number in the tens of thousands of cars in terms of what we can push through. So that could present meaningful and consequential 10% of total sales in a year.

Just as I mentioned earlier, we will sell 300,000 cars this year. And as Carvana matures, it's not quite there yet, we will grow that to be a consequential and material percentage of what's sold. I will also say to you that I think the relationship with Carvana will also present, as I mentioned in the remarks, kind of an interesting view as to kind of where car sales and car prices are moving. That kind of intelligence will be important as we think about managing the fleet and just the sheer volume of cars that we will look to sell. But I think Carvana holds enormous promise, 5% above or thereabout what we get in the wholesale market and tens of thousands of cars at the mature state to sort of push through the channel itself.

Kenny Cheung

Yes. Ian, it's Kenny. Just to give you a perspective, right, on Carvana then I will answer the share count question. If you think about a normal year, we sell, call it, 300,000 cars, one-third is retail, two-third is wholesale. So there's a big opportunity there converting wholesale to Carvana. The share count at the end of the period was 368 million.

Ian Zaffino

Thank you.

Operator

And I show our next question comes from the line of Adam Jonas from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.

Adam Jonas

Hey, Steve. Hey, Kenny.

Stephen Scherr

Hey, Adam.

Adam Jonas

Definitely very, very smart to err on the side of caution with the fleet size. That's really, really good to hear. I'm almost pinching myself, I can't believe I'm hearing this.

Stephen Scherr

You are hearing it. You are hearing it.

Adam Jonas

It's actually happening. I don't believe it. A little more detail on the EVs. How many EVs do you have in your U.S. fleet right now? Where are they? Well, if you don't mind, I'll just rapid fire. How many?

Stephen Scherr

So we are at about, I think, 20,000 cars now kind of active in the fleet and obviously deliveries ongoing.

Adam Jonas

Okay. And what can you tell us about any stats? You mentioned a premium, $30, $35 premium, that's great. But anything else on D&A per unit? I don't know if you're able to share that right now if you have enough information or OpEx or anything else on profitability of that line? Because I think there are some issues with logistical challenges and things, which are part of the early EV fleet, right, which you've talked about in the past. I'm just curious if you pundit [ph] all together, how is -- is that a positive EBITDA shift for you or margin shift for you? Or is it [multiple speakers]?

Stephen Scherr

The answer is unequivocally yes. In fact, last week, we did kind of re-underwrite on the EV fleet, how it's playing, how it's presenting relative to what we thought it would do on the initial decision to go in. So I'd say a couple of things. First of all, we continue to take delivery of Teslas and we will continue to do that, number one.

Number two, I think you should expect in the coming months that you'll see announcements from us about purchase of electric vehicles in sizable quantity from other OEMs as we try to sort of build out kind of a broad population of vehicles across a range of OEMs, and we will see those at very attractive kind of price entry points.

Third, we are capturing, I think, as I said in the remarks, kind of a $30 to $35 premium on this. That premium has been fairly sustainable. And in the T&C channel, we are renting these for about $334, $335. We have found kind of just the right price point where given all sorts of externalities around economics for an Uber driver, they want to and are excited about renting that and they can turn a profit there.

What that means for us, by the way, particularly in the TNC side is fewer touch points on the car over a course of a month, maybe by as many as 5 to 7x. That reduces cost considerably. We are obviously passing some of that on because the weekly rental is lower for the P&C driver than the per diem or per day rental out to the normal RAC.

On maintenance, I think Kenny said to you, we are running kind of 50% to 60% of what maintenance costs are on ICE vehicles. That's roughly in line with where we are. If there's any one surprise, it's probably slightly higher expense on tires, but not much more, and that's embedded in the figure I'm giving you. So I would say, overall, we are very pleased with the results. They're coming in roughly in line with what we thought when we first underwrote the move in this strategic direction.

Two other things I would say to you is: number one, I think depreciation on these cars will be better, right, than what had been modeled for a variety of reasons. And secondly, I think that on the logistics that you spoke about, this is where first mover matters. The first lot we took from Tesla relative to the most recent lot we took have moved materially faster. We've learned how to move those cars, where we want those cars to be. And equally, I think we have schooled our customers on how to use them, so much so that I think there's an embedded tether there, which is people have learned how to use the card. They're coming back to use the car and rent car more frequently. And I think all of those are expressions of the first mover edge that we have around EVs.

Kenny Cheung

Yes, just to add on that, on depreciation, we originally pegged depreciation rate to an ICE vehicle, as Stephen mentioned. Right now based on early inning on data, we are seeing the depreciation rate on the EVs being lower than ICE vehicles. So as we underwrite the business case with new data, we are even more confident with the economics of EVs.

Adam Jonas

That's really, really valuable data. If I can just squeeze in one more. Of the 20,000, how many of those are in TNC versus non-TNC? That's it. Thanks.

Stephen Scherr

I think it's a pretty fluid number. I mean the idea here is that they're not locked in, right? I want the flexibility to be able to move cars as between TNC and non-TNC, and so it's pretty fluid. Some of the facts and figures we gave you in the prepared remarks just indicate the sheer magnitude of demand that's being expressed by TNC, but that's going to be a fluid number by design.

Operator

Thank you. And I show our next question comes from the line of Ryan Brinkman from JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Ryan Brinkman

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. I heard you say that demand has remained strong in 3Q as reflected in bookings in August, et cetera. What insights can you share about the trend in pricing so far, either in July or maybe what you can glean based upon the bookings for August, et cetera?

Stephen Scherr

Yes. I would say on pricing, remember, the move from Q1 to Q2 showed pricing up, I want to say, about 12%, which was well above what seasonal movement Q1 to Q2 would have been. On the back of where we sit at elevated prices, I don't know that there's a lot of room for pricing to go up as it traditionally would have, right, between Q2 and Q3.

So in my own mind, I think we will stay at a relatively static price in through Q3. And really, what we will see in the third quarter will be an expression of seasonal demand uptick, so more days. And that's historically been in the 7% to 8% range in terms of Q2 to Q3. And I think that's what we will see.

We are at a very elevated sort of price level. I think it's sustainable. I don't foresee, as Kenny said, a sudden influx of new supply from the OEMs. And so holding fleet tight, protecting rate, we will sort of see that stay stable and we will see pick up Q2 to Q3, more in the expression of days in volume than in rates.

Kenny Cheung

Yes. The only thing I add is on pricing. Stephen is right. Q2 to Q3 is going to be a bit more flattish given where it is right now. But RPU, based on early reads are higher, right, so we are more effective and efficient with the use of our fleet.

Ryan Brinkman

Okay. Very helpful. Thanks. And what impact do you think there will be going forward on RPD from like the different crosscurrents and mix? So for example, like as international inbound continues to recover, maybe as Tesla increases as a percent of total on the leisure side. That should provide a nice tailwind, but how does that compare against, for example, a higher mix of corporate travel as that market also recovers? And with the balance of supply and demand as tight as it is, are you may be seeing like less than the traditional difference in RPD between leisure and corporate? And so maybe that wouldn't be the same headwind to RPD as you might ordinarily expect? Or how do you think these things might net out going forward?

Stephen Scherr

Sure. Well, I mean, first, I will say your question reflects kind of why we're now playing, I propose the question earlier, to multiple sort of pockets of demand because you will see sort of expression of demand different, right, across each. International inbound is improving, okay? And it's a very attractive segment for us by virtue of what we realize on rate and equally what we take in terms of value-added services.

And the fact that testing sort of restrictions around COVID were lifted on inbound into the U.S., that's quite positive. And by the way, I would tell you that our European business is seeing exceptional growth and exceptional performance as is the Asia business. So there's kind of two way travel that's sort of benefiting.

On the Tesla side, as I said in response to Andy's question earlier, we are seeing -- or Adam's question earlier, we are seeing heightened demand and elevated price by way of premium, we think we continue to capture that on the forward. The corporate segment is a really interesting one. So corporate business in Q1 was kind of back 60% to pre-COVID levels. I would say that's now at about 70% of pre-COVID levels. And I would tell you that what we are seeing in terms of rate is equally up.

So like sequentially, Q1 to Q2, we saw roughly 28%, 29% improvement in rate, okay, around the corporate side. We are seeing similar momentum in corporate internationally. And I would also tell you that as we look at reengagement with corporates on contract renewals, we are seeing about a 97% retention of those accounts and they are almost all renewing at higher rate relative to where the older contract was. And so those are obviously very good signs in the context of what corporate can produce for us.

Kenny Cheung

The only thing to add on corporate is even though the RPD is a potential drag, it's RPU accretive because you get to utilize the fleet between Monday through Wednesday, which by default is a bit [indiscernible] versus the weekend, right? So again, it's the RPD drive. But from a fleet sort of ROA standpoint, it's good because they get to use the asset a bit more in the early part of the week.

Ryan Brinkman

Thank you.

Stephen Scherr

Sure.

Operator

This concludes today's Q&A session. I would now like to hand over to Stephen Scherr, Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead.

Stephen Scherr

So I'd like to thank you all for your participation on today's call. I hope the call left you with a sense of the progress we are making on our strategic and operational advancements and equally demonstrated a level of adaptability of our business more broadly. We look forward to sharing further updates with you at our next call. And until then, stay safe, enjoy the balance of the summer. And I will now turn it back to the operator.

--- Q3 2022 ---
Hertz Global Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:HTZ) Q3 2022 Earnings Conference Call October 27, 2022 8:30 AM ET

Company Participants

Johann Rawlinson - VP, IR
Stephen Scherr - CEO
Kenny Cheung - CFO

Conference Call Participants

Chris Woronka - Deutsche Bank
Ian Zaffino - Oppenheimer
Ryan Brinkman - JPM
John Healy - Northcoast Research
Adam Jonas - Morgan Stanley

Operator

Welcome to Hertz Global Holdings Third Quarter 2022 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] I would like to remind you that this morning's call is being recorded by the company.

I would now like to turn the call over to our host, Johann Rawlinson, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Johann Rawlinson

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. By now, you should have our earnings press release and associated financial information. We've also provided slides to accompany our conference call, which can be accessed on our website.

I want to remind you that certain statements made on this call contain forward-looking information. Forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of performance and by their nature, are subject to inherent uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially. Any forward-looking information relayed on this call speaks only as of today's date and the company undertakes no obligation to update that information to reflect changed circumstances. Additional information concerning these statements is contained in our earnings press release and in the Risk Factors and forward-looking statement section of our 2021 Form 10-K and our third quarter 2022 Form 10-Q filed with the SEC. All these documents are available on the Investor Relations section of the Hertz website.

Today, we'll use certain non-GAAP financial measures, which are reconciled with GAAP numbers in our earnings press release. We believe that our profitability and performance is better demonstrated using these non-GAAP measures.

On the call this morning, we have Stephen Scherr, our Chief Executive Officer; and Kenny Cheung, our Chief Financial Officer.

I'll now turn the call over to Stephen.

Stephen Scherr

Thank you, Johann. Good morning and welcome to our third quarter earnings call. Before we begin our earnings discussion, I want to focus for a moment on Hurricane Ian, which brought considerable devastation to Southwest Florida just weeks ago, including to our home town of Estero. Having been in Florida with our employees, customers, local officials and relief organizations, I've been struck by the resilience and perseverance of Hertz employees to be in the service of our neighbors and customers. Fortunately, all of our employees in the affected areas were safe, and our physical assets suffered little to no direct damage. The Hertz team is engaged with our community on its path to recovery.

Let me now turn to our financial results for Q3. Hertz posted another quarter of solid performance. Our results were the product of strong demand across leisure, corporate and rideshare, high utilization, a stable rate environment and actions intended to further our stated strategy of managing fleet to suit demand. We remain focused on operational excellence and attractive financial returns.

Third quarter revenue was $2.5 billion, up 12% year-over-year, and up 6% quarter-over-quarter. We generated $618 million of adjusted corporate EBITDA resulting in a healthy 25% margin. Adjusted free cash flow of $505 million reflects a conversion rate of over 80% for the quarter. This significant free cash flow generation enabled us to invest across our business, as well as reduce our capital base in the quarter by 7% through share repurchases.

The third quarter was characterized by continued strength in rate across all customer segments, with increased contribution of revenue from value added services, and particularly strong pull through of corporate demand. Through the quarter, we experienced better than expected movement in revenue per day, and revenue per unit with each up 3% and 5%, respectively versus Q2.

Beyond positive volume trends we also experienced improved operating performance as the quarter progress, including a lower direct operating expense space, fewer out of service vehicles and more active fleet rotation. Our focus on fleet consistent with the strategy around active fleet management discussed on our last earnings call enabled us to capture healthier gain on sales earlier in the quarter against the declining residual price environment.

RPD in Q3 was $68.57 and RPU as a record $1,685. Our results reflected stronger performance than seasonal expectations would typically yield. This should continue into Q4 as OEM production remains constrained and as we continue to manage fleet inside demand. On rate we expect to remain at elevated levels this quarter relative to historical norms with normal seasonal adjustment versus Q3.

Finally, as strong as our unit revenues were in Q3 RPD as a metric may be less telling, as we grow our TNC or rideshare business where length of rental is longer relative to the conventional RAC business. Lower RPD in that customer segment should not mass TNCs impressive economic contribution to margin.

Lower implied RPD over a multi week rental alongside lower associated transaction transactional expense, produce attractive EBITDA margins being the primary metric to which we manage our business. In Q3, TNC rental volumes more than doubled year-over-year, and our expectation is that this customer segment will continue to grow.

With respect to the business overall during the quarter across all geographies, we maintained our focus on customer service us despite the peak summer season limited availability of vehicles, high fleet utilization and elevated pricing we improved our NPS score sequentially from Q1 through Q3. This is a terrific achievement and a testament to our employee focus on putting the customer first.

While our Q3 results reflect overall strength in our business and continued demand for our services, there remains opportunity for further growth as we experience a return to volumes achieved prior to the pandemic. This is consistent with what has been reported across the travel industry. Notwithstanding risk of economic slowdown, we see no evidence of softness based on current bookings. In fact, revenue metrics for the month of October, including RPD, and transaction days are up year-over-year.

Likewise, domestic leisure travel remains elevated as we are now one month into Q4. Corporate business reached 75%, the pre pandemic levels in Q3 with forward bookings reflecting a continuance of this trend into Q4. While corporate activity from small and midsized businesses demonstrated considerable growth across the first half of the year and into Q3, larger global accounts accelerated during Q3, as these customers have only begun to increase their travel volume. In Q3, we renewed 100% of contracted corporate accounts open for renewal, and 93% of these renewals contained a price increase.

Finally, international inbound activity is showing signs of return, particularly into the year-end holidays and despite a strong U.S. dollar. While early and only by example international inbound bookings for Florida and West Coast destinations are up over 50% in reservations for the Christmas holiday.

Before Kenny takes you through the details of our results, I want to address four key areas of focus for our team as we progress Q4 and look toward 2023. They are fleet management, cost structure, strategic priorities and capital deployment. Let me begin with fleet.

Last quarter I spoke at some length about our strategy of managing fleet size to expected demand. Given market dynamics in Q3 with rental volume remaining elevated and residuals in decline, our fleet strategy had to take account of aggregate fleet size, as well as the composition of the fleet.

In managing the fleet we considered embedded equity value across the whole of the fleet, as well as on a vehicle level basis as we size for overall customer demand, and made acquisition and disposition decisions. In Q3, we began with a fleet size of 532,000 and finished the quarter at 512,000, which included a refresh as we bought back approximately 75% of the volume that we sold.

The process enabled us to maximize the harvest of embedded equity against a declining residual value market, while at the same time rendering the fleet younger at lower price points and releasing capital to return to shareholders. Should residual price declines persist beyond Q3, we expect to continue monetizing the equity in our fleet and using that equity to subsidize the purchase of vehicles at reduced prices.

While residual price decline was anticipated in Q3, the pace proved more accelerated than expected. Beyond broad indices are large use car retail footprint and partnership with Carvana provided us with real time pricing information, enabling us to make swift decisions on vehicles most exposed to potential decline in value. These platforms also enabled us to sell vehicles at a premium to the wholesale market.

Our Q2 and Q3 fleet actions mitigated our exposure to the normalizing market and positioned us tight on fleet going into the fourth quarter exactly where we want to be with the standing option to buy cars to meet Q4 demand at more attractive prices.

Let me turn to our cost structure. Our ambition is to take our unit costs down to render Hertz a more efficient operator in all markets. In Q3 however, we came into the quarter with elevated out of service levels, primarily because of higher recalls in the first half of the year, and reduced workforce, particularly among mechanics coming out of reorganization.

During the first two months of the quarter with parts procured, we made the intentional decision to carry higher costs in our operations to effectively address the recalls, bringing out of service down and putting vehicles back into the usable fleet. As a result, our DOE in the quarter remained higher than desired, but our cost based in September displayed better operating level than the prior two months, and we are experiencing even lower unit costs in October, as we open Q4. We expect improving operating leverage throughout Q4, and we look to further improvement in 2023. We expect the Q4 cost reduction to be the product of several factors, including most notably a more pronounced reduction in expensive third party labor, and a continued pivot to Hertz badged employees, as well as the completion of our telematics installation across 100% of the Americas fleet.

Our telematics investment is already contributing to superior recovery times on missing vehicles, more accurate fuel readings upon return, and timely service alerts bringing real value to the customer experience and efficiencies in the field.

Next, let me comment on our strategic initiatives. Our activity over the quarter reflects the strength of our commitment to the increasing electrification of our fleet, both in terms of growing a more diversified fleet of EVs, and making progress on charging. As you know, we made two significant announcements in Q3 related to electrification. First, we announced our memorandum of understanding with GM to acquire up to 175,000 electric vehicles over the next five years. The agreement encompasses EV deliveries through 2027 and spans a wide range of vehicle categories, and importantly, across various price points.

From compact and midsize SUVs to pick-ups, luxury vehicles and more. The arrangement will dramatically expand our EV offering and diversify our source of EVs at ever more attractive price points. We will be able to drive increasing volumes and attractive margins with more electric vehicle choice at lower cap costs.

Of equal importance, we announced an infrastructure agreement with BP, which promises to increase the network of charging stations available to Hertz customers and to improve the charge management of our EV fleet. BP pulse, a unit of BP, will fund and install charging infrastructure across the Hertz location footprint. This partnership will enable us to expand the national charging network available to our customers at an accelerated pace and provide access to a growing number of charging networks to use at attractive pricing.

Likewise, BP Pulse will also customize energy management software for Hertz to ensure our growing fleet of EVs are recharged quickly and in a cost efficient basis in preparation for rental. BP Pulses platform will allow us to optimize timing and usage of energy, thereby containing costs and ensuring our customers are provided an EV at an appropriate charge level.

Beyond electrification, our technology initiatives are progressing well. Telematics as I noted before, and the early introduction of a new analytics platform are two hallmarks of our progress in Q3. In the quarter, we went live on the introduction of an analytics model designed by Hertz and Palantir. The model enables us to harness our data in innovative new ways that will get our customers on the road more quickly, improve our cost structure appropriately calibrate pricing against demand, and reduce the complexities of operating a large, diverse fleet.

While early, we believe the rollout across the U.S. will bring significant benefits to our business, both from a revenue and operating costs perspective. I'll wrap up with a few comments on capital deployment. We continue to invest in fleet and non-fleet CapEx in the quarter and to repurchase or common stock. Our Q3 investment throughout our net fleet CapEx for the first nine months of the year to $672 million and our non-fleet CapEx to just under $100 million.

On share repurchases through nine months, we have repurchased $2.1 billion of stock. As of October 20, we had $1.4 billion remaining under our $2 billion authorization. Our strategy around capital allocation continues to be one of investing on our business, then using free cash flow to repurchase shares.

As I turn the call to Kenny, I want to put our results and our forward view of the business in the context of what others across the travel industry have communicated over the last two weeks. Like the airlines and hotels, we are experiencing undeniably strong demand for our services as we begin Q4. As I noted earlier, demand is up across leisure and corporate, utilization remains elevated and neither is being driven by price concession.

That is not a forecast that is current reality. It is true that residuals on used cars declined precipitously as Q3 progressed, that I would distinguish supply driven factors that drive use car pricing from demand driven factors that underlie the fundamental expression of activity being shown by our customers. As a matter of risk management, we are prepared for a slowdown should one materialize.

But for now, the nature of demand we are experiencing stands in contrast to the more negative tone underlying the economy, and may well be fueled by changing travel patterns emerging out of the pandemic. Whether this is specific to the travel industry or a signal for the broader economy remains to be seen. Regardless, we remain focused on maintaining the right fleet, the right cost base and the right strategic deployment of capital to generate attractive returns for our shareholders over time.

I'll now turn it over to Kenny to walk you through our results in more detail.

Kenny Cheung

Thank you, Stephen. And good morning, everyone. As Stephen mentioned, demand for rentals was strong in the third quarter, and our focus on possibility resulted in a high margin business. Our third quarter adjusted EPS of $1.08, adjusted corporate EBITDA was $680 million, reflecting a margin of 25%. Revenue was $2.5 billion in the quarter, a 12% increase compared to the prior year period, and a 15% increase on a constant currency basis.

Revenue and EBITDA were negatively impacted by approximately $70 million and $20 million, respectively due to currency changes. About two thirds of revenue growth was attributable to volume and one third to rate. This RPD growth was driven by disciplined fleet management in accretive ROA mindset. RPD was $68.57 and monthly RPU was a record $1,685 for the third quarter exceeding the second quarter RPD and slightly ahead of the expectation laid out on our previous call.

This constitutes a 5% increase over a second quarter RPU driven by continued quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year improvements in rates and volume and higher utilization versus Q2. July is typically the strongest month of the year for our business, and we achieve RPU for the company of $1,777. The key driver of the post pandemic RPD growth has been the growth and revenue from value added services. These ancillary customer services provide high-margin revenue and with the international returning, we see room for further growth.

Volume in the quarter grew 11% year-over-year, and 5% quarter-over-quarter in line with our expectations. The 5% volume growth was achieved despite fleet increasing less than 4% aided by tighter utilization. It should be noted that transaction days for the quarter at about 37 million for presents a post pandemic record. Most of the volume came from leisure rentals, which increase versus the previous quarter.

Our corporate and international inbound volumes continue their recovery in the quarter, an increase from Q2 to 75% and 45% of pre-19 levels respectively. Utilization improved quarter-over-quarter to 80% and was enabled by our investment and preventative maintenance and fixing recalls to drive down out of service levels as we noted earlier.

Through our determined efforts, the number of vehicles classified as out of service was materially reduced. As a result, we were able to achieve a September exit rates of 81.4% on utilization, which is an impressive operational achievement. To put this exit rate into perspective, this is a 220 basis point improvement and utilization for the month versus 2021 and a 50 basis point improvement versus 2019.

Moving to fleet carrying costs. We recorded growth depreciation per unit per month of $324 in the third quarter offset by net gains on sell of $137. Net DPU for Q3 was $187 which was $22 more than the high end of the range we estimated on our last call, primarily resulting from industry wise declining residual values in August and September. While we anticipated a reduction and used car prices in the second half of the year, as Stephen noted, the decline was steeper than we expected. The excess in the Q3 depreciation expense over our guidance broadly amounts to about $50 million or a reduction of $1,000 per vehicle across 50,000 cars sold during the back half of the quarter.

Based on our recent review, we expect DPU in Q4 up $240 to $260 which will result in the full year EPU of $110 to $130. We expect to continue to rotate out high mileage and fully depreciated vehicles to reduce the average age of our fleet. Doing so will untrap some of the unrealized gains in the fleet and manifest as an offset to gross depreciation.

We benefited in Q3 as a seller of cars and likewise benefited due to actions taken earlier in the year, which placed our fleet on the short side of demand. We saw vehicles in the third quarter both as part of seasonal de-fleeting and as part of proactive rotation discussed earlier. And with the month-over-month declines and residual values, we were able to capture prices that were higher than they are today.

And looking forward, it's important to keep in mind our residual values are still up over 30% from 2019 levels. We expect to continue managing our exposure to residuals in the following ways. First, we expect to keep the fleet tight so we are not long on cars. While we have a standing preference for acquiring new vehicles, to the extent we need to increase vehicles to meet demand, we can do so at reduced cap costs and through the used car market.

Second, we continue to identify vehicles in our fleet with greatest exposure to falling residuals, as well as older vehicles with more trust equity and prioritize those for rotation. The equity cushion in our ABS facility remained at over $2 billion at the end of Q3. The equity cushion provides insulation from any potential need to inject equity collateral into the ABS. We do not foresee a need to make any such contribution. The stability of this cushion notwithstanding the accelerated decline of residuals was a product of various factors.

First, select the purchases of new vehicles in Q3 at below MSRP provided a fair value cushion almost immediately. Second, the selling of vehicles considered to have elevated exposure to falling residual values based on granular model and trim level data. And third, the presence of EVs. Our EVs proved beneficial on a relative basis as their residual values were generally more resilient.

Turning now to our cost structure. During the first two months of a quarter, the company ran with intentionally elevated operating costs to address out of service levels, as Stephen mentioned earlier. As a result of these efforts, by the end of the quarter, out of service levels have decreased thereby increasing utilization.

Going forward, we are focused on improving our cost base it will closely monitor DOE per transaction date as a metric to evaluate our progress. In Q3, our DOE per transaction day was about $35. Within the quarter, we experienced month-over-month decline as Stephen noted, October is showing further improvement. We have several initiatives in place to reduce overall DOE some of which we mentioned earlier around labor, and telematics.

Additionally, as the TNC business grows, and as we increase the number of EVs in our fleet with the lower maintenance profile, we expect transaction economics to improve will lower cost.

Let me now turn to capital structure and liquidity. Our balance sheet remains healthy, and we ended the quarter with a leverage of 0.7 times. At September 30th, our available liquidity was $2.6 billion comprised of $1 billion and unrestricted cash in the balance available under the revolving credit facility.

During the quarter, we increased our RCF capacity by $55 million to almost $2 billion, creating additional financial flexibility and enhancing our corporate liquidity. We also increased the commitment under our variable funding notes by $65 million to over $3.9 billion. Our balance sheet and ABS structure remains exceptionally well positioned for a change in residual environment.

Turning now through our cash flow and capital allocation for the quarter. Adjusted operating cash flow was $572 million for Q3, a 93% conversion from EBITDA. Nonfleet CapEx was $41 million for the quarter and net fleet CapEx was $26 million. The resulting adjusted free cash flow was a strong $505 million, a conversion of over 80% of EBITDA.

Our capital priorities of investing in our fleet funding our strategic initiatives and returning excess cash to shareholders remain unchanged. During the quarter, we repurchase 27 million shares for $500 million. Overall, we allocated nearly $570 million towards capital investments and share repurchases during the quarter, all funded from operating cash flow.

Lastly, let me touch on what we are expecting for Q4. On Demand, as Stephen mentioned, apart from seasonal expected adjustment, we see no lessening of volumes through year-end. In fact, in Q4, we will ordinarily observe about a 15% seasonal volume reduction relative to a summer peak in Q3. Given current trends, we expect our Q4 reduction in transaction days to be closer to 10%.

On fleet, we expect it to remain tight and large consistent with our fleet size as we begin the year. We will selectively add vehicles as demand warrants. And we'll also continue the rotation of fleet. Rotation enables us to harvest residual equity, realized in the form of gains on sale while simultaneously reduce the age of our fleet. Our current fleet plant in Q4 will render the fleet younger by over two months.

In the context of that rotation, we now expect net fleet CapEx for the year to be at or about the lower end of the previously discussed range of $750 million and $1 billion. And our rates, Q3 to Q4 typically reflect the seasonal softening of around 8% to 10%. And we expect this year to follow historical patterns. Our Q3 exit rates on utilization, costs, bookings, positions us well for Q4 and will permit us to continue operating with the momentum experienced to date.

With that, let's open the call for Q&A.

Question-and-Answer Session

Operator

[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Chris Woronka with Deutsche Bank. Chris, your line is open.

Chris Woronka

Hey, good morning, guys. Thanks for taking the questions. Stephen. I think you mentioned in the prepared comments, some distinction between factors that are driving used car pricing and factors that kind of drive demand for rail cars. I mean, could you maybe give us a little more color on the distinction between those factors?

Stephen Scherr

Sure, sure. Thanks for the question. So let's start with the used car side. So used car prices are largely driven by supply factors. So as OEMs produce more cars and increase the supply of those cars, that tends to soften demand for used cars and therefore softens pricing. At the moment, the prospect of increased OEM volume may be more than the reality but the prospect of it is influencing used car residuals. And the reality is the demand for used cars falls, as the prospect of a new car becomes more affordable and available.

As an aside, I'd point out that rising interest rates also dampened demand for used cars and therefore the residual price, falls and that's obviously the reality of the moment. By contrast, the increased supply of new cars as a driver of used car pricing doesn't dampen demand for rental cars, the demand for our product is driven by a whole range of different factors for leisure travelers, there are post COVID travel patterns appetite for experience over hard assets. Corporate travelers are largely expressing demand as a function of commercial activity. And the TNC drivers of the ride share are driven demand is driven largely by the profitability associated with renting a car as opposed to owning it.

So it's a different set of factors. But perhaps to answer the more important kind of component to your question, new car supply will not put at risk the pricing of our product, okay, put aside demand. We control the size of the fleet and the supply of cars that are available to rent. And this runs obviously to the very core of the strategy that we articulated on the last call and executed this quarter. I mean, it is true, if you look at history, the industry historically lacked discipline and around fleet sizing it often found itself in a position where we would size up fleet for a robust travel season, demand would not materialize, that would lead to lower RPDs and lower residuals as rental car companies depleted so you had a kind of a double effect, lower RPD and lower residual.

That's not where we are running the business. Now, in contrast, we now source cars and grow fleet to sit inside where we perceive demand to sit and because we control the supply of other cars we can meet that demand and safeguard price. And so I think, that's really the differential, if you will, supply side versus demand side on the two sides, if you will, of the equation.

Chris Woronka

Yes, thanks. That's very helpful, Stephen. And then as a follow up, I guess, maybe, could we maybe get a little bit more color on kind of the EV plants for next year, not looking for specific guidance, but all the moving parts in terms of how many you think you can inflate next year? And what impact that's going to have on DOE depreciation and stuff like that? Thanks.

Stephen Scherr

Sure. So a couple of things. One is, we've targeted roughly a quarter of the fleet to be EV by the end of 2024. Over the course of 2023, we will begin to take in GM electric vehicles, which will come in at a very attractive price points and across a range of models. That on one hand will be a positive because it will give our customers a selection and a choice. It'll enable us to operate an even higher margin in the context of renting those vehicles. And obviously, the debt rate will fall and go lower as we're buying cars at a lower cap cost.

And so I think, the open of that valve if you will, the supply of EVs to add to what we're doing around Tesla, and Polestar, I think will be a positive, both in terms of customer experience and in the overall economic picture around depreciation, for our products set.

Kenny Cheung

Hey Chris its Kenny. So let me just add a little bit color to your last part of the question, right. So first and foremost, I'll say we are excited that the EVs are coming in as expected, and it's validating our long term view the economics being accretive to the ICE vehicles and into our business.

In terms of the P&L impact itself, on the revenue side, we know we are seeing customers willing to pay a premium for these rentals. Right now the RPD spread between an EV vehicle and ICE is roughly $30. Right. So again, 85% flow throughout the EBITDA. As Stephen mentioned, we're seeing NPS scores literally 10 points higher than the average ICE vehicles right now for EVs and the utilization, we are improving each and every single day. Stephen mentioned depreciation and in my prepared remarks EV is a bit more resilient right now, given the changing residual landscape. And right now, the depreciation as a percent of cap cost is between 0.85% and 1%. As you may remember Chris, we usually used up around 1.25%. So it's about 25% lower than ICE vehicles.

So right now, all of the, the revenue side depreciation side is coming in to some cases better than how we modeled it. On the expense side, we are seeing maintenance costs being 50% less than ICE vehicles, right? So we're seeing some of the productivity as well on the DOE side.

Chris Woronka

Okay. Great. Very helpful. Thanks guys.

Kenny Cheung

Thank you.

Operator

Please hold for our next question. Our next question comes from Ian Zaffino with Oppenheimer. Ian, your line is open.

Ian Zaffino

Hi guys, thank you very much. Very good quarter, but glad to hear all the strong commentary you guys are providing. Thank you for that. I wanted to ask just maybe building on the last question as far as depreciation. Thank you for giving us the near-term depreciation outlook. But if we look longer term, in the context of like fluctuating residual values, also like the mix of the fleet going forward, how should we actually be thinking about some of the depreciation on a longer-term basis? I have a follow-up.

Kenny Cheung

Hey Ian, it's Kenny. Thanks for the question. So we have a few thoughts, right? First, I'd say we don't think about depreciation in isolation because, frankly, that's not the way that Steve and I manage the business. We manage by driving margin and ROA. So depreciation is just one input or said differently, it's just one knob on the dashboard, right? So as Steve and I manage the business, revenue, depreciation, EBITDA margin, all of that is directly linked and related. And all of that has to be considered when making fleet decisions.

So let me give you an example. As I just mentioned to Chris about EVs, yes, on face value, as of right now, the EV depreciation is relatively higher than ICE vehicle. Obviously, that may change as we diversify our fleet. But as of right now, they are higher depreciation. If you just look at that metric, it would be misleading because an EV right now has the higher RPD attachment, has a lower maintenance cost profile. Therefore, it's accretive to our business and into our margins.

So just to kind of wrap it up from my end, while I cannot tell you exactly what depreciation rate is going to be because it's a function of what vehicles we buy or keep which will inform by what revenue and demand hence margins, we expect to earn those vehicles. What I can tell you is this, right? If you bifurcate net depreciation, you have gross and gains. Over time, we expect gross and net to converge with a modest spread as we sell a significant numbers of vehicles through our retail channels, including Carvana, which as you know, is agree of the wholesale.

Ian Zaffino

Okay. Great. Thank you. And then also, I just wanted to go over the fourth quarter a little bit more. Maybe from an RPD standpoint, can you just remind us what the comps look like? And I know you provided commentary for October. But I do believe as we got into later in the year, you probably have easier comps. Can you just remind us about what the cadence is for the quarter? Thanks.

Kenny Cheung

Yes. So for third quarter, so let me back up a little bit. So during the last call, our guidance with RPD to be flat. Given the dynamics that Stephen mentioned, we saw a strong demand and strong pricing. So quarter-over-quarter, RPD was up 3%. Year-over-year, it was up close to 4% year-over-year. As Stephen mentioned, right now for October, we are seeing that trend tick up even higher on a year-over-year basis.

Stephen Scherr

I'd also just point out just as we look out at the fourth quarter. I think the expense profile, as we both indicated, is going to change dramatically. As I noted, we purposely incurred what I would describe as more onetime costs around elevated recalls and the like. And that probably amounted to kind of a $50 million to $60 million number in the context of what our run rate was. We've obviously brought that down.

So we look now in October at DOE per transaction day at being roughly 10% lower than where we were. And equally, that was in decline, right, sequentially month-to-month within the quarter. Just to sort of frame this out, that cost probably is 2 points of EBITDA margin. And if you think about the revenue that we brought in, excluding that incremental $50 million or $60 million of expenses, we were probably experiencing 70% contribution margin on the incremental revenue.

And the point to incurring that expense was really to bring 20,000 cars at a monthly RPU of $1,600 for the balance of the year, so call it, 4 months, that's $130 million top line in exchange for the expense that we were incurring. And so I just want to frame that as you think about to your question of looking forward to the fourth quarter, the pull-through in the business is improving and will improve relative to where we were in a one-time expense incurrence.

And so I just think it's important to understand that in the context of thinking about expense as it was in Q3 why we incurred it on the exchange for incremental revenue and putting that fleet back into productive use. And then equally, our return to a much more significant sort of contribution margin on incremental revenue as we bring DOE per transaction day down.

Ian Zaffino

Thats great color. So thank you guys and congratulations on the quarter again.

Stephen Scherr

Thank you.

Operator

Please stand by for our next question. Our next question comes from Ryan Brinkman with JPM. Ryan, your line is open.

Ryan Brinkman

Hi, thanks for taking my questions. It would be great to get your latest thoughts on the potential impact that hurts from the Inflation Reduction Act. I think there are a number of unknowns still here, including at least until the treasury issues is clarifying, whether the tax credits will be treated as a credit against tax owed or whether it might instead be treated as a rebate, reducing the price of the vehicle.

I listened with interest as the CEO of Ford last night expressed his view that the electric commercial vehicle tax credit was being underappreciated because police fleets and local municipalities could take advantage of these credits. Of course, local governments don't pay income taxes. So he seemed to believe that the credits would essentially be treated as a reduction in the price of the vehicle, which would be incredible for you, right?

Like if you received thousands of dollars back against the 100,000 Teslas and the 150,000 GM EVs you plan to buy. So maybe this thinking is premature, but is it at least one of the scenarios that you're looking at as possible? Or in what other ways do you think you could be impacted by the Inflation Reduction Act?

Stephen Scherr

Well, listen, it has certainly captured our attention in as much as it has yours, right? So the details around this, obviously, takes effect as of the first of the year and will get treated as a corporate different than individuals. So let me just focus on the corporate side. So you're right to say there's a tax credit of up to $7,500 per electric vehicle. Now there's some rule-making to come. So this is going to be determined extensively on the lesser of 30% of the vehicle price and the delta between an electric vehicle and a comparable ICE vehicle. Exactly the measure of comparability kind of not yet known, okay?

But in a positive vein because this legislation removed the pre-existing cap vehicle production cap of 200,000 cars, it now renders Tesla and GM, a particular note to us as being eligible right for this tax credit. So important to sort of take stock of that. There's some talk about recapture and the like. At the end of the day, I think this will be a credit that will offset corporate tax or corporate minimum tax; it has a carry forward life of about 20 years. And so it will be of considerable value to us. Exactly how you're meant to look at it as an offset to price and the like, hard to know, and the rule making is hard to know, but this is a consequential piece of legislation as it relates to the attractiveness of the economics around the vehicles themselves.

Ryan Brinkman

Okay. Great, thanks. And you addressed the decline in used car prices, which while some of precipitous is also maybe not that surprising given how precipitously they rose previously. I wanted to check in on the other big driver of your higher than historical results, which is revenue per day, which has also risen a lot.

Just to what extent do you feel like the elevated trend in revenue per day is likely to maybe hold in better than used vehicles as they inevitably normalize lower? I heard Kenny mention that ancillary services were a big, if not the biggest driver of higher RPD. I had imagined that maybe the semiconductor chip shortage and resulting supply and demand imbalance for rental cars was the biggest driver, along with just the general increase in consumer prices.

It sounds like you think ancillary services could keep rising from here, still benefiting RPD. What is your outlook for the balance of supply and demand for rental cars? We've been thinking maybe the supply of vehicles on the retail side on dealer loss that could normalize maybe by the end of 2023 or so. But only then would the automakers look to sell more aggressively to the rental fleet suggesting that there could still be imbalance for rental cars well into 2024 with the implication RPD could still be abnormally high then.

What are your thoughts along these lines? And what do you think the new normal of RPD might be once the dust settles from some of these unusual industry and macro factors?

Stephen Scherr

Sure. Well, there's a lot in your question. Let me try to address it. And maybe I'll just start with the following, which is a little bit of insight into the month of October, okay? So we're seeing plus 5% rate, plus 5% volume. So both volume and rate, transaction days and rate are showing continued strength and promise, right, in the context of where we are.

Now, as I talked about in the prior question, the supply of new vehicles or perhaps the prospect of the supply of new vehicles, I think, was one of several contributing factors to a downdraft in the residual price of used cars. I don't think we foresee the supply of OEM production to sort of hit its stride much before 2024. So there will be new cars this year, but not to the extent that I think is being contemplated as it relates or plays into the used car market.

So we were a seller, as we said, in the management of our fleet earlier in the quarter, the objective to try to capture the gain that was most at risk, okay? And we did that more on the front end than on the back end right of the quarter to capture that gain. The decline in the residual value of used cars plays positively to us as and to the extent that we continue to look at the used car market as an area where we can meet marginal demand beyond that, which we in fleet in terms of new cars.

So the fact that, that pricing is coming down is a benefit. We get into new used cars or good condition used cars at a lower price point than where we were, okay? In the context of overall revenue and the strength, obviously, the primary factor is demand. And demand is out there across leisure, it's across corporate and it's across the ride share or Uber and Lyft driver, okay?

On the leisure side, as we pointed out, very strong sort of Christmas holiday bookings from inbound travelers. We're seeing equally different travel patterns among our leisure customers right, where people are extending business trips into leisure trips.

So somebody goes for a meeting in a different city, Tuesday through Thursday, they decide to work remotely on Friday. They're taking our car for Friday, Saturday and Sunday. That's obviously a positive for us on the leisure side. On the corporate side, we're seeing, as I said, very strong demand among large corporates, and we're also seeing them look to put their employees in EVs to satisfy their own ESG footprint.

And then Uber and Lyft drivers are picking up in increasing numbers the available rental cars because it's proving to be more profitable for them, more profitable for Uber and quite profitable for us. And so I'm just pointing out to you kind of the breadth, right, of demand dynamics that are out there, the strength of those dynamics and the fact that even through October, we're seeing strength in rate and volumes not falling off as might otherwise be anticipated.

Kenny Cheung

Hey Ryan, it's Kenny. You mentioned value out of service in my prepared remarks. That is true. Right now, we are seeing record level of that RPD across my transaction days. And I think that's fairly impressive, given the fact that international inbound, which is usually the biggest buyers of value-added services, has not fully returned. As I mentioned, it's 45% of 2019 in terms of that segment. And historically, that means roughly, call it, 10% to 15% of my business. So that's not fully back yet. So I do think there's upside as inbound comes into play.

And remember, right, we are achieving this not by luck or accident. This is a structural improvement in our VAS structure, as I mentioned earlier in the year in terms of what we did to incentivize our employees with the right comp plans as well as we are embedding VAS into our digital assets as well. I think the second thing I'll say is more general. I think RPD is a good proxy. But as Stephen mentioned in his prepared remarks, RPU margins could be more relevant down the road.

Let me give you an example. TNC may carry a low RPD by nature, right, than a RAC leisure business. However, given the low touch time and the fact that these drivers have them would mean high utilization, margin may be the better metric in RPU for us, which is what we track very closely.

Stephen Scherr

Mean I think a combination of lower expense, lower capital costs, okay, are all going to be drivers of a sustainable, if not increasing margin, right, to sort of how we run our business over the longer term.

Ryan Brinkman

Very helpful. Thank you.

Operator

Please hold for our next question. Our next question comes from John Healy with Northcoast Research. John, your line is open.

John Healy

Thank you. Thanks for taking my question. I wanted to pivot a little bit more to the balance sheet. Obviously, rising rates are going to have an impact on all sorts of financing businesses next year. Is there a way, Kenny, to kind of think about how much the ABS market has changed on a year-to-date basis and what that might suggest kind of your longer-term fleet interest expense maybe over the next 3 to 5 years as those ABS maturities kind of roll? And what sort of headwind are we thinking about for next year kind of on a rough math basis, if you could help us there?

Kenny Cheung

Yes. John thanks for the question. So I think as I mentioned earlier our balance sheet right now is extremely strong from all aspects, liquidity, leverage, the cushion on the ABS. So if you look at our balance sheet, it's very, very strong right now. On your question specifically around our debt profile or debt stack, right, if you take a step back, 70% to 75% of our debt is fixed. So we are largely insulated from any near-term interest rate hikes.

If interest rate hikes, if every 1% for our business, the annual impact on our floating debt will be roughly $30 million. And let me remind you, right now, most of our ABS maturities is not so, I'll call it, post 2024, 2025, right?

So we are well laddered at this stage, especially with the term notes. In terms of the VFNs, right, they're the folding part of the ABS, so roughly 30%. We do have cash in place to limit exposure to rates as well. On the corporate debt side, I think I mentioned on the last call, we have no that maturities until 2026. So again, we are well laddered on that side as well.

John Healy

Great. And Stephen, I want to ask a little bit about the Palantir development in terms of how you're thinking about technology usage across the enterprise. Can you maybe help us talk about how that product positions you differently, maybe the benefits and the skills gained with it? And then just from an implementation and the cost side of things, is there any kind of wildcards or unknowns as we should think about rollout into next year? Thank you.

Stephen Scherr

Sure, sure. Maybe I'll start at the last part of your question. So part of the reason to partner as opposed to build of our own is that it's a much more cost-efficient means of putting this type of technology and engineering talent to work, meaning we don't need to build and, in fact, what Palantir offers by way of a foundry platform enables us to avoid the cost of harmonizing random aspects of data into a single point that can then produce output that guides decisions.

So as an example, and this goes to the first part of your question, as we build a pricing tool, okay, a pricing tool can look at anomalous circumstances in a given market and it can help guide price up or down, right, to meet certain circumstances. It can read weather data, it can read airline cancellations, it can read sudden surge in hotel bookings, all of that can be rather disparate. It comes together in kind of a coherent form through Palantir and then produces output to us that we can then action on an automated basis.

It takes the whole process of managing the fleet, pricing the fleet, etcetera, to sort of a new level. So the more akin to what you know to be the case for airlines and otherwise, and it elevates a level of sophistication for us that I think has very meaningful consequence just in terms of not just how we run the business but at what price point and what the economics are of how we run the business.

On the operational side, it takes seemingly random and somewhat mundane sort of actions and makes them infinitely more efficient. Just take registration of new vehicles. It's a very cumbersome process, okay? It requires that a registration comes in, you identify the car. Often, that car is out of service, right, for a day or a week until that registration is a fix. They can help us sort of track cars and locations and meet delivery of registration, put it on the car and the like.

This all sounds rather mundane. But over a fleet as large as ours, days and weeks matter and that too will improve the operating efficiency and the return on the asset base that we have. And so I think doing this in partnership is a cost-effective means of doing it. It doesn't require we build. And our time to market, so to speak, on putting this technology in place is much faster, right, when partnering with someone like Palantir than it would be for us.

John Healy

Great. Thank you guys.

Operator

Please standby for our next question. Our final question today comes from Adam Jonas with Morgan Stanley. Adam, your line is open.

Adam Jonas

Thanks everybody. Guys, it's very impressive what you are what you're executing here. I just want to start by saying that, Stephen; we've heard Hertz sold approximately 17,000 vehicles to enterprise at the end of September. It's an interesting move going into the -- coming out of the third quarter. Can you confirm this? And what drove that decision?

Stephen Scherr

Well, I'm going to refrain from kind of confirming or denying kind of particular transactions. Suffice to say that consistent with the fleet strategy that we have, okay, you can't just look at aggregate fleet number into demand which we do. But in a market that expressed the kind of price volatility on residuals that we saw, we needed to be really fast in our fleet. Our feet [ph] to look at the composition of the fleet itself, which is to say, we looked early on in the quarter at where embedded equity was highest and therefore, most at risk in the context of a decline -- an expected decline in the residual value of used car prices.

And in doing that and in identifying that component of the fleet, we engaged in fleet rotation where we sold high and had opportunity later to bring cars back in at lower prices. Whether we sell those cars in the wholesale market, retail to another rental car company or through Carvana, we're just simply looking to optimize the price that we get. And that's what we did. And we did it through all channels that we could, obviously, pacing well north of what the wholesale market would avail us.

So what we saw through Carvana and retail was plus 5%, 6% what the wholesale market was and any other buyers that were there that wanted to offer premium pricing in the context of the way we run our business. You can be assured that we look and entertain those kinds of opportunities as well.

Adam Jonas

Thanks Stephen, I appreciate it. I know it's not the first time that you would have again, not mentioning enterprise specifically, but selling vehicles to competitor, but kind of feeding a competitor that's known for reducing prices when they do have sufficient vehicles, is just something I'm sure your team has taken into consideration amongst the other channels?

Stephen Scherr

Look, I look at over the industry, Adam, and I'll say to you that across enterprise any of this, the number of markets in which the various rental car companies were out of market, okay, meaning they had rented all vehicles they had, okay, is a pretty important consideration in the context of how I think about what the pricing dynamics look like. And there is stability at very elevated levels in part because of that.

And then each rental car company has its own forte including some like enterprise who have a very strong insurance replacement market different than what dominates our business. And so you need to think about that in the context of competitive dynamics as well.

Adam Jonas

Thanks. Just a final follow-up for me. Would you take on debt to fund the buyback?

Stephen Scherr

I mean, right now, I kind of like where our balance sheet is. Do I think we have the capacity to take on modest incremental leverage? I do. I don't find this market to be particularly attractive, and I'm certainly not with my back against the wall to do it given the ample liquidity that I have. But depending upon what return profiles look like in terms of fleet and equally non fleet CapEx, there's an opportunity to take on incremental leverage.

I wouldn't say it's designated exclusively for the purpose of share repurchase, but there's modest leverage we could put on this business. But again, we're in the luxury of being in a position to be more judicious about the market in which we issue debt than just being compelled to issue.

Adam Jonas

Thanks, Stephen.

Stephen Scherr

Sure.

Operator

This concludes today's Q&A session. I would now like to hand the call over to Stephen Scherr, Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead.

Stephen Scherr

Thank you all for your participation today. I'm pleased with the progress we are making on strategic and operational advancements and encouraged by how adaptable our business and management team and employee base has been and will continue to be to fluctuations in demand and other circumstances in the industry. I look forward to sharing further updates with you on our next call. Operator, I'll turn it back to you.

--- Q4 2022 ---
Operator

Welcome to Hertz Global Holdings Fourth Quarter 2022 Earnings Call. Currently, all lines are in a listen-only mode. Following managements commentary we will conduct a question and answer session. I would like to remind you that this morning's call is being recorded by the company.

I would now like to turn the call over to our host, Johann Rawlinson, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Johann Rawlinson

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. By now, you should have our earnings press release and associated financial information. We've also provided slides to accompany our conference call, which can be accessed on our website. I want to remind you that certain statements made on this call contain forward-looking information. Forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of performance, and by their nature, are subject to inherent uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially.

Any forward-looking information relayed on this call speaks only as of today's date, and the company undertakes no obligation to update that information to reflect changed circumstances. Additional information concerning these statements is contained in our earnings press release and in the Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements section of our 2022 Form 10-K filed with the SEC. All these documents are available on the Investor Relations section of the Hertz website.

Today, we'll use certain non-GAAP financial measures, which are reconciled with GAAP numbers in our earnings press release available on our website. We believe that these non-GAAP measures provide additional information about our operations, allowing better evaluation of our profitability and performance. On the call this morning, we have Stephen Scherr, our Chief Executive Officer; and Kenny Cheung, our Chief Financial Officer.

I'll now turn the call over to Stephen.

Stephen Scherr

Thank you, Johann. Good morning, and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings call. On the close of my first fiscal year at Hertz, I'm very pleased to report on a strong quarter and a record year for the company. Our Q4 results reflect progress made during the year on our growth initiatives, increased efficiency in our operations, strong fleet management and our commitment to prudent capital allocation in all 2022 was about focusing on our service offering and reinforcing the talent at Hertz to deliver for customers and shareholders.

As we open 2023, we continue to experience strength in the business with January and the first week of February, closing strong. Our performance in 2022 and this early indication into Q1 leaves me confident in the sustainability of our financial performance the prospect of long-term value creation and the ability of Hertz to deliver a superior product to our customers on a more efficient cost base. Our strong performance also lends confidence to the forward execution on growth initiatives, including expanding our rideshare business, growing our EV platform and revitalizing the Dollar and Thrifty brands.

With that, let me begin with the results for Q4. Revenue in the quarter was $2 billion, up 4% year-over-year. Revenue per day and revenue per unit remained strong with both up year-over-year, 3% and 4%, respectively. Transaction days were up 3% year-over-year reflecting stronger performance than seasonally expected. Importantly, core operating expenses per transaction date in Q4 were down 5% sequentially versus Q3, reflecting increasing operating leverage in the business as signalled on our Q3 call. Hertz produced adjusted corporate EBITDA of $309 million in the quarter, resulting in a margin of 15%, and with adjusted free cash flow at $424 million. Our results were the product of continued stability in rate and higher utilization of our fleet, all the while maintaining NPS scores for 2022 that were higher by 10 points year-over-year. Taken together, these financial KPIs were in line with guidance.

Depreciation per unit in the fourth quarter was $244 reflecting the low end of the range referenced on our Q3 call. Kenny will speak to the forward direction of depreciation, but suffice to say that we view this level as moving closer to what we believe normalized or expected depreciation will be. More broadly, I should point out that depreciation on our P&L is fundamentally an output, not only of the market for used vehicles, which has begun to reverse its price declines quite substantially in the last several weeks, but also of our fleet strategy as it reflects our purchasing decisions between new versus used cars, EV versus ICE and our expected and actual length of key. As such, depreciation should not be considered in a vacuum. Our goal is to construct a fleet with the highest ROA.

As you know, we took advantage of elevated used car pricing in early 2022 as an opportunity to purposely harvest equity in our fleet. Looking back these actions, when combined with the anticipated decline in prices in the back half of 2022, did not impair the adequacy of the equity cushion in our ABS facility. In fact, today, we are comfortable with the level of equity in the facility even under conservative assumptions about forward residual prices in EVs and otherwise. Downward price movement in cars, while depriving us of the magnitude of gain on sale experienced in 2022 is welcome in the context of future fleet purchases as even under multiyear plans with the OEMs, we enjoy the benefit of forward price declines should they occur. Regardless of vehicle prices, we will always keep our commitment to fleeting within the confines of demand.

Turning back to our performance overall. Our results in Q4 reflected improved execution by the Hertz team. By example, travel disruptions across the country in the quarter caused our field operations to respond to higher than typical cancellations occasioned by flight disruptions as well as unplanned demand for one-way rentals. With the benefit of better revenue management tools, agile fleet management and the dedication of our people, we put cars on one-way rent at 3 times historical levels in the week leading into Christmas. Delivering for our customers with one-way rentals also enabled us to move vehicles from northern markets in the U.S. to vacation markets ahead of expected demand in January and February. The increased number of higher RPD, one-way rentals and lower transportation costs related to fleet repositioning proved positive for us, helping to offset the negative effect of cancellations.

As I noted, our expense base improved in Q4. Last quarter, we set an objective for better operating leverage in the business, particularly given the purposeful investments we made in Q3 to remedy elevated out-of-service levels. DOE or direct operating expense per transaction day in the fourth quarter, excluding $168 million litigation settlement announced in December, was under $33, down 5% sequentially. This is particularly noteworthy for the fourth quarter when operating expenses tend to be higher given seasonally higher labor costs relating to the elevated cadence of year-end travel and correspondingly higher overtime and other labor expenses. Focusing on the full year revenue was $8.7 billion, an 18% increase over 2021. Adjusted corporate EBITDA was a record $2.3 billion and adjusted free cash flow was $1.5 billion, the highest ever for the company. Significant free cash flow generation enabled us to invest across our business throughout 2022, as we launched our new strategic initiatives and began a technology uplift across the company. That cash flow also enabled us to reduce our capital base by nearly one-third.

I'm very pleased with our results for the year and come into 2023 with confidence in the company's ability to replace a significant portion of 2022 EBITDA attributable to gain on sale. Our confidence is based on continued improvement in execution as well as levels of demand across the business that are holding at sustained pricing. In the U.S., we closed Q4 with leisure and corporate demand, both progressing back toward pre-pandemic levels, but importantly, at higher pricing. With respect to corporate travel in Q4, we continued our recent success of near 100% corporate contract renewal with many coming at higher renegotiated pricing. Our highest rate business, international inbounds, also continued to recover and we view the return of the non-U.S. traveler as providing upside to our business.

Importantly, we saw this momentum carry into January, especially on corporate and inbound. In terms of transaction days, corporate demand was up 28% in January versus January of last year, and international inbound was up 56% on the same comparison, reflecting a strong opening to the year. Similarly, our rideshare business was up 98% January over January, with RPU up approximately 20% in the same period, reflecting higher price and utilization and longer length of keep.

Lastly, European business is also showing strength with rate up 20% in January versus last year. With respect to fleet, you heard me reiterate throughout 2022, and that we were focused on maintaining fleet size inside the expected demand curve. Our fleet strategy in 2023 will be a continuance of the same. With ROA or return on assets as the financial cornerstone for Hertz, our objective is to improve the revenue potential across the life cycle of a vehicle managing our fleet operating costs and matching our mix of fleet to available opportunities. All things being equal for the same revenue potential, we will take the path that results in a fleet comprised of lower cap cost as well as lower depreciating and lower maintenance vehicles across our leisure, corporate and rideshare and fleet business lines. With that, we will always remain attentive to customer preference.

In terms of operating expenses, we have made progress, as I have noted, but we are not done. We continue to replace third-party employees with Hertz badged employees at lower cost including project engineers, where we are seeing a broader pool of talent at more affordable price points, aided by current dynamics at large technology firms. Regarding labor costs in Q4, we experienced marginally reduced wage pressure and better overall labor availability. Combined with field efficiencies and better technology, we look for improvement from here. We expect unit costs to move lower in Q2 and the back half of 2023 with further reductions in 2024 as we look to substantially complete our transition from data center to cloud-based operations.

Looking ahead, we are rethinking our approach across all expense channels and have dedicated a newly staffed team to ensure progress. Whether that means procuring parts locally to secure price benefits scrutinizing our real estate footprint with an eye to selling underutilized parcels or renegotiating vendor contracts, everything is on the table. To vendor Hertz' a more efficient operator for 2023 and beyond. As we close out Q4 and move into 2023, we also continue to progress our strategic initiatives, including through expansion of our partnership with Uber now to include Europe, growth in our EV platform across all segments; expanded use of the Carvana and the proprietary Hertz retail channel, where we continue to secure premium pricing on vehicles sold; and continued focus on expanding our access to corporate and leisure bookings through our long-standing relationships with key partners, such as Delta Airlines and the AAA, both of which are now renewed.

We also continue to progress our strategic investments in technologies such as telematics and the continued migration of our business to the cloud. There are two additional and new initiatives that are worthy of mention. These are the revitalization of the Dollar and Thrifty brands and our recently announced approach to collaborating with cities across the U.S. to facilitate the growth of our expanding EV fleet. Let me start with Dollar and Thrifty. These two iconic brands are performing shy of their potential. Each has the considerable brand recognition globally and a long history with customers. However, today, they lack consistency of purpose and are not adequately capturing the opportunity to reach the important customer population that is more price conscious, travels less frequently and is not necessarily drawn to loyalty programs and other attributes that define more service-driven brands. That's now going to change. We intend to revitalize these brands to pursue profitable mid-market growth across both leisure and business. The intention here is to utilize these brands on a more managed cost basis and independent of our Hertz brand to access customer segments that we're not adequately topping today, including OTAs, consolidators, tour operators, select airlines and other partners.

We're in the very early days of this initiative. Bringing focus and purpose to Dollar and Thrifty will better position us to successfully compete against comparable brands in the market, and we believe we can do so at an accretive margin. We view this segment to the market as increasing in size and growing through multiple channels, refining the brand identity of Dollar and Thrifty will also enable us to better maintain the value proposition of our premier Hertz brand in the market.

The second initiative is a new program that we announced several weeks ago at the U.S. Conference of Mayors Hertz Electrifies. This program is a complement to our standing initiative to electrify our fleet and our corresponding efforts in partnership with BP Pulse to build out the charging infrastructure at airports and Hertz off-airport locations in the markets in which we operate. As a public private partnership with major U.S. cities, Hertz Electrifies will accelerate the utilization of our EV fleet in key metropolitan markets. In addition to a wider proliferation of charging stations to serve leisure, corporate and rideshare customers the partnerships include supplementing municipal fleets with Hertz CVs, sharing telemetry data with cities as they consider electrification projects of their own and developing educational and training programs to help create a pipeline of employees with EV skills.

We are beginning with Denver and based on the reception to our announcement at the Mayors Conference in Washington, we expect to have additional cities announced in the near term.

Finally, regarding our technology journey, we have considerable progress to report. Our migration to the cloud is progressing well and will allow us to operate more efficiently including through the reduction in considerable consultancy and operational expense by 2024. The Hertz app continues to be reimagined. In 2022, we initiated enhancements to the app for quicker functionality and vehicle selection. This is only the beginning as we will further refine the shop and book elements of the app that move on to in-rent attributes and post-rent elements to provide our customers with a more modern, easy-to-use experience.

And our work with Palantir also continues. We are currently focused on development of a fleet control tower to help us manage our large diverse fleet while also rolling out our pricing tools to nearly all markets in the U.S. In all, 2022 was a record year as measured by adjusted corporate EBITDA and adjusted free cash flow and a launch point for projects with tangible benefit to the performance of the company.

Looking forward, we expect double-digit margins to hold in a market that continues to show us opportunity. Our ROA mindset remains foundational and is underpinned by a focus on EBITDA and cash flow generation with attention to expanding channels of revenue generation, like rideshare and the Dollar and Thrifty brands and a focus on unit cost of delivery. As we pursue growth, fleet and cost management remain our key levers should demand soften. While we are not seeing demand reduction today, we are positioned to confront that challenge should it materialize. The continued strength of the consumer and evolving patterns of consumption around experience over hard goods, and a potential shift away from historical travel patterns are positive trends for us. But should demand shift, we are positioned from a structurally defensive position. We do not carry a fixed asset base and our fleet profile is flexible.

With that, let me turn it to Kenny to walk you through our results in more detail and provide commentary on our liquidity and capital allocation.

Kenny Cheung

Thank you, Stephen, and good morning, everyone. As Stephen noted, we had a solid fourth quarter and a record full year. Fourth quarter revenue was up in both the Americas and International segments and totaled over $2 billion, an increase of 4% year-over-year or 7% on a constant currency basis. RPD, RPU and 21:33days for both segments improved year-over-year. Both rate and volume met our expectations for the quarter, as we laid out on our last call, and I'll reiterate that the volume performance was 500 bps better than seasonality typically yield. Utilization increased 100 bps year-over-year despite severe air travel disruptions in the U.S. at year-end.

Domestic leisure volumes across the industry have made progress towards pre-pandemic levels within our business, and we see steady improvement in corporate volumes. International inbound have been slower to recover but hold considerable promise for us. As of the fourth quarter in the Americas, corporate was at about 80% of 2019 levels and international inbound grew to about 50%, up from 45% in Q3.

As international inbound continues to be covered, we expect it will prove accretive to RPU, utilization and margins. Adjusted corporate EBITDA was $309 million in the fourth quarter, a margin of 15%, growth in corporate and rideshare were large contributors with continued strength in leisure. Geographically, we saw strong performance across all markets. For the full year, revenue was $8.7 billion, an 18% increase from 2021. On a constant currency basis, revenue increased 23% year-over-year with strong increases in RPD, RPU and days across both the Americas and International segments. Adjusted corporate EBITDA for the full year was a record $2.3 billion, a margin of 27%, with both the Americas and our International business at record levels.

Our focus on higher-yielding business, a dynamic fleet strategy and a focus on asset return all contributed to an improved business. We generated higher EBITDA while maintaining a tight fleet. Staying on fleet, we continue to dynamically manage our composition of vehicles during the quarter, ending the year with a fleet size of approximately 480,000 vehicles roughly equal to the fleet size at the start of the year, just as we guided. Due to seasonal de-fleeting and other rotation, fourth quarter net fleet CapEx was a source of cash. Fourth quarter net DPU was $244 within the range we quoted on our last call and continued to normalize during the fourth quarter, ending at $300 for the month of December. We expect our average fleet size in Q1 to be higher than what we closed the year in light of elevated levels of demand.

Depreciation in the ABS facility let me put a bit more detail to what Stephen spoke about earlier. First, as Stephen noted, we managed the business to margin and ROA, we don't solve for depreciation in isolation. Depreciation is the output of various fleet decisions, including acquisitions and holding periods that we make in order to maximize return on the business as a whole. Second, declining car prices render a lower cap cost, which is the first ingredient to depreciation. We have been and will be buyers of both new and used cars. And as a result, we expect to benefit from downward price trends. For avoidance of doubt, we benefited in Q4 from price declines on EV purchases. Third, the holding period on our vehicles are dynamic. And decisions on length of keep are not made across the whole of the fleet but are specific to model and year. On EVs, specifically, and as we have stated previously, we expect longer length of keep over time. Further, we currently depreciate EVs over a time period that is longer than ICE vehicles. We believe this time period could lengthen given the mechanical profile of the car and with more history under our belt.

Fourth, entering 2023, we are less likely to be sellers of vehicles with a primary purpose of capturing excess value, which was an opportunity that may prove to have been unique to 2022. Make no mistake, we will look for smart opportunities to harvest gains and we model for gain on sale in 2023. But we entered 2023 with far fewer nondepreciating vehicles in our fleet. And given the decline in residual prices broadly, we expect operational utility to be the primary driver of physicians on fleet deletions. And finally, the last point I will make is on our available channels for fleet disposals. While not directly impacting gross depreciation expense, we continue to leverage the Hertz car sales and Carvana retail disposition channels, providing us with a meaningful premium over wholesale channels. This represents nearly one quarter of our car sales in 2022, and we look to grow that from here.

Two points to make on the ABS facility. First, and as a reminder, equity and the ABS is measured as the excess of the fair market value over ABS book value. This fair market value is determined based on the entire fleet not just one make or model and entering the fourth quarter, we had vehicles that carried excess equity at inception, driven by smart and opportunistic fleet procurement. Second, after vehicle acquisition, incremental equity is typically created by vehicles that are required to be amortized in ABS at accelerated pace compared with economic depreciation rates. This incremental equity cushion to either buffer future decline or be harvested by us selling cars with high built-in gains or high residual value risk. This is what we deliberately did last year. Our actions enabled us to harvest gains.

In Q4, our equity cushion went from $2 billion to $1.1 billion. From here, we expect that the cushion will continue to be sufficient under stress scenarios more conservative than those offered by the market.

Turning now to operating costs. Our revenue growth outpaced our expenses and as Stephen pointed out, BOE per transaction day exclusive of the litigation settlement was under $33, a $2 per day improvement from the third quarter. Our efforts with respect to reducing third-party spend and maintenance costs and utilizing telematics data are showing benefit. As we continue to grow our EV fleet and progress on a technology investment, we expect further improvement in operating leverage.

Looking back on Q4, the quality of our earnings was driven by solid execution in a strong market. Demand exceeded a seasonal expectation across our leisure business and corporate activity proved strong, which was beneficial to mid-week utilization. Our rideshare fleet continue to grow and while at reduced RPD compared to RAC, the economics of these rentals are margin accretive, as we pointed out in the past. Residuals came off the peak in the back half of the year following our significant harvest of fleet equity in Q2 and Q3.

Let me now turn to capital structure and liquidity. Our balance sheet continues to remain healthy, and we ended the year with a net corporate leverage of 0.8 times suggesting room for modest incremental leverage on the business when capital market conditions make it prudent to do so. At December 31, our available liquidity was $2.5 billion, comprised of $943 million in unrestricted cash and the balance available under the revolving credit facility. In December, we amended our European ABS facility, the Abbie Italian fleet, increasing aggregate maximum borrowings to EUR 1.1 billion extending the maturity from October 2023 to November 2024.

Turning to our cash flow and capital allocation for the quarter. Adjusted operating cash flow of $156 million in the fourth quarter before considering fleet CapEx, which was a source of cash of $312 million due to seasonal de-fleeting and rotation, as I mentioned earlier. Adjusted free cash flow was a strong $424 million, a conversion of over 100%. For the full year, adjusted operating cash flow was $2 billion and adjusted free cash flow was

$1.5 billion. I should point out that both the quarterly and annual amounts exclude the impact of the $168 million in litigation settlements, which were paid in the fourth quarter due to their unusual nonrecurring nature. Despite the adjustment for the settlement, full year adjusted cash flows were at record highs.

As stated previously, the settlement did not impact our capital allocation our capital priorities of investing in our fleet, funding our strategic initiatives and returning excess cash to shareholders remain unchanged. During the fourth quarter, we repurchased 19 million shares of common stock for $350 million. Overall, we allocated nearly $360 million towards note capital investments and share repurchases during the quarter. For the full year, we repurchased shares equal to nearly 30% of the equity base of the company.

Lastly, let me give some highlights for what we expect in 2023. I'll start with revenue. Seasonally, first quarter revenue is normally slightly below Q4 based on a reduction in volumes and flat RPD. However, for Q1 this year, we expect revenue to be flat compared with Q4 with transaction days to hold steady. For Q2 and Q3, we expect both rates and volume to increase, contributing to higher revenue in those quarters. We would expect Q4 to seasonally adjust down from those levels. On fleet, we expect average fleet in Q1 to be slightly elevated to where we ended the year at 480,000 cars, particularly given heightened demand levels, and compensating for slightly higher recall levels in the fleet. We also expect seasonal growth in fleet through Q2 and Q3 to meet higher demand in the spring and summer. From there, typical de-fleeting is expected as the year comes to a close. On net DPU, we anticipate depreciation to further normalize and settle in the range of $300 to $320 in Q1. Regarding net DPU expectations for the balance of the year, we expect it to trend down towards the lower end of the Q1 range, given anticipated mix and changing whole patterns and reflecting some modest gains on sale across the fleet.

And with respect to direct operating expenses, we expect Q1 DOE per transaction day to be approximately $33, roughly equivalent to the normalized figure for Q4. From there, we expect it to trend lower from Q2 through year-end.

Lastly, in prior years, we anticipate the trajectory of free cash flow generation to be weighted more heavily towards the back half of the year as we de-fleet off the summer peak and through year-end. First half 2023 free cash flow will reflect investments in fleet CapEx as the size of fleets to meet expected demand in the busy summer season. That said, and consistent with our behavior in 2022, we will continue to balance capital allocation among capital spending, share repurchase and other initiatives.

In closing, we are pleased with the momentum we have seen early in 2023. And as we assess our prospects for the year, we have confidence in our ability to deliver attractive full year financial returns.

With that, we'll open the call for Q&A.

Question-and-Answer Session

Operator

[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Chris Woronka with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.

Chris Woronka

Stephen, sort of the high level, and you've been in the CEO seat for, I guess, about a year now. I mean, can you share any of the insights you've gained during the period and some of the key learnings and maybe what gives you confidence in the future of this business and the comment about being able to hold double-digit margins?

Stephen Scherr

I would say that if one looks back on 2022, I would say that it will prove to be a down payment, if you will, on the forward for the company in '23 and beyond. I mean we took the large as free cash flow over the course of the year and brought down our equity base by a third. But equally, we took opportunities to invest in fleet and non-fleet CapEx that I think will have lasting benefit to the company, both in terms of its operational fidelity, but equally kind of the growth opportunities that are there.

If I look back on the year, I would say -- I would just make a couple of observations on the business, and then I'll give you a sense of kind of where that leaves me in terms of optimism on the forward. First of all, the performance of the business has improved. And I think we're now running a quality of business that's more befitting of the Hertz brand. Second, I think we have changed the mindset across the whole of the company to a true adherence to an ROA sort of mindset. That is we now manage and understand the business across the whole of the company based on financial return, which I think is important. It's not to the exclusion of a view on the customer. But I think we just hone tighter and more efficient in how we manage fleet and otherwise.

Third, I would say we brought better human capital to the game. So Hertz is going to be better by virtue of a new group of executives that we brought on to run it. And that combined with the tenure of people that we have in the field and organizational changes we've made in the field to run this better with more line of sight responsibility for production efficiency, customer service also better.

Fourth, I would say, and as I mentioned, our technology is improving. It may not all be visible to the market, but we're building better technology tools for our people in the field, better technology for our customers to use and setting the whole of the company up in the cloud as opposed to a data center will be better for us overall. And then I think the last thing I would say is that a big discovery certainly for me and I think for the company, particularly as we look to fleet inside demand is the recognition of the value of a very deep and broad used car market in the U.S.

So where does that lead me on the forward? I think, first, we've identified a set of growth vectors for the company, whether that's rideshare, Dollar Thrifty EVs. And I think they all carry a different profile with respect to durability of revenue that will be different than what you see in kind of the classic RAC business. Second, I think we're going to continue to operate with discipline. And importantly, I'm observing the industry to be showing that same discipline, perhaps benefited by the fact that OEM production of cars is still beer, but I think the industry is showing the discipline that we ourselves are demonstrating.

I would say that over the last couple of quarters, I think we may have signalled that, in fact, used car prices are disconnected from rates, meaning typically, you looked at this industry and as prices fell on residual rate went that way and that's not happening now. And I think that's important, particularly if the worst of used car decline is behind us in terms of what's most precipitous. So I think we're in a good place and now, I think, in a good place from a capital allocation point of view, which is like we did in '22, in '23, we're going to focus on fleet and non-fleet CapEx serving the growth initiatives and all the while attentive to the opportunity to buy back stock. And so that's kind of where I am, Chris, in terms of what I've seen and where I think we're going.

Chris Woronka

I guess as a follow-up, obviously, a lot of headlines recently around price cuts on EVs, particularly Tesla. And I think there's just some general curiosity in the market about how that impacts Hertz both puts and takes, right, on the purchase and resale side. Is there any way to kind of walk through that and give us a little bit of color of how you guys are thinking about it?

Stephen Scherr

Sure. Why don't I start, and then I'll hand it to Kenny to give you sort of more particulars. But look, first of all, as Kenny said, we benefited from price declines in electric vehicles in the fourth quarter. And so we've moved in that direction. I think it's important to also know that we bought now, call it, 20%, 25% of that, which we expect in terms of an overall EV fleet that by 2024 will be a quarter of our fleet. And so as prices come down on electric vehicles, we'll buy 80% of what we want at a lower price point because as we said in the prepared remarks, cap cost is the first ingredient to depreciation on these cars.

I think it's also important to understand that in terms of EVs, we rode these up and then down, meaning we started early, bought them at a low price. Obviously, we paid higher as the market did, but then paid lower. So you need to look at kind of overall average cost that's there. And the last thing I would say, and this will play into depreciation as it being an output, not an input, but we have said on various calls that we expect the length of keep around EVs to become longer over time and longer even still to where we sit today. The nature of those cars, the experience of those cars, the ability to re-kit the interior will give us kind of a length of keep well in excess of where we are. And that evolve in terms of the overall depreciation cost of these cars on an annual basis.

But let me turn to Kenny for a little bit.

Kenny Cheung

Yes. Chris, it's Kenny. So let me give a bit more color on what Stephen talked about in terms of depreciation. And then maybe I'll talk a bit about the ABS as well, Chris, to your question. So depreciation, right, I think it's important to note that we don't do a mark-to-market on our vehicles, right? So instead, appreciation is a function of other variables. For example, cap costs, right? In this case, cap costs, the price is coming down, cap cost is lower, lower depreciation, right? The second piece, which Stephen pointed out, which is more relevant to a Tesla is expect the residual value over the whole period, right? With EVs, this is particularly important given their ability to operate for longer. And longer hope here will reduce the impact of residual changes on depreciation.

On the pricing side, keep in mind that we did average in tests across the year. So we -- so our blended cost for Tesla is reduced by the early purchases and the most recent ones that we bought in Q4. In terms of the fleet size, I mean, Tesla right now is roughly, call it, less than 10% of our total fleet. So the impact on depreciation is a bit minimized.

And the last thing I would say is that all else being equal, a lower cap cost will further enhance the economics of EVs, which is proving to be accretive to our business. Quickly on ABS, Chris, we do bring in the test laws into the ABS at a, what I call a haircut, right, let's call it 5% haircuts. On day one, there is equity to be had. You're in the money on day one. The second piece is subsequently, every month, the Teslas faster in the ABS than the economic death rate, which also provides cushion. So as you can imagine, we look at the pool of cars as a whole, not by maker model. And right now, as I mentioned on the call, we have sufficient cushion entering 2023.

Operator

Our next question comes from the line of Ian Zaffino with Oppenheimer.

Ian Zaffino

Great color on the comments on depreciation, maybe not tracking rates. Can you give us maybe a little bit more color? What is per se giving you confidence there? And then also, how does that then figure into your normalized EBITDA target and how you're thinking about that?

Stephen Scherr

Well, I think -- listen, it's important to understand depreciation is not kind of a fixed element, meaning it's influenced by a number of decisions and factors that we make all with an eye toward the ROA or the margin of the overall business. And so I'll just make a couple of comments. First of all, while we're attentive to what customers want, as and to the extent that rate is not being differentiated as between a brand-new car versus a good condition, low mileage used car, we're going to run with lower cap costs, lower-cost cars, okay? And we look at the totality of what the cost of that vehicle is in terms of making those decisions.

So I think that we're in a place where, as we think about financial performance, whether it's EBITDA down through cash flow, depreciation is but one element, and we have quite a number of levers to control in the context of it based on what we buy, the length of keep for the vehicle Obviously, as we engage in growth around P&C and Dollar Thrifty, those are going to be two kind of business repositories where older cars are going to go therefore, playing to sort of higher margin and lower depreciation. All of those are factors that influence depreciation. But again, depreciation is but one piece of an overall puzzle and it itself is an output of some very clear decisions we make around the return profile, looking at cap cost, maintenance expense and overall economic return for the car itself.

Kenny Cheung

Just to give more color, Ian, on depreciation. So if you look at Q4, right, as I mentioned, net DPU was $244. If you bifurcate between gross and gains on sale, gross was roughly $346 million, and then the gains on sale per vehicle was $102 that's how you get to the, call it, the $2.44. As you look outwards, right, I've talked about we expect in the range of $300 to $320 for the rest of the year, right? So growth appreciation for the most part, faced similar, right? Let's call it $350 for rounding standpoint. The gains on sale, right, we had $100 in Q4, high-low math, let's say that's $50 now. So that $350 minus $50 gets you to $300 for the rest of the year. And that's how we think about it.

Stephen Scherr

Yes. The one thing I would say, though, is that we've taken a rather conservative approach to sort of what we believe price decline will be over the course of the year. And I think we said in our remarks that we're more conservative than where the indices or the market is forecasting. And so that obviously plays into the view we have on the forward and we will adjust. So we're taking expense down.

I think in the last five weeks, we've seen a correction to use car prices to our benefit, not to our detriment. And therefore, gain on sale may improve over the course of the year to the extent that we see that sort of continue on. And to the extent that the worst of used car decline is behind us. But I think we're taking a prudent and conservative approach to this and have a number of levers to sort of offset where depreciation will be, no less what depreciation will be as we play forward.

Kenny Cheung

Yes, the way the years of the good start have you awake our on cars selling prices gone up every week.

Ian Zaffino

And then may can you just touch upon on the corporate side. Maybe also international inbound. How is that progressing assortment February? Where February looks like? You know I have been negotiating some of the contract some of the corporate side. Hows that going? And what should we expect on that front.

Stephen Scherr

Sure. So let me take them in that order. First of all, the inbound business, which is a very profitable business for us, okay, has been up quite considerably. In fact, the momentum we're seeing carrying into this first quarter, if you just look at the month of January, international inbound was up 56% year-over-year. So comparing January as against January. And that business continues to sort of play very strong. In fact, it played strong even through year-end when, in fact, foreign exchange would have suggested otherwise. So it just suggests to you the strength of demand of travel by non-U.S. customers who are coming to the United States. So very strong, and the momentum is carrying forward into January kind of as an early indicator on where we are on the year.

In terms of the corporate business, I would say that January equally sort of told you of the continuation in demand. Demand was up 28% over January, again, with corporate demand coming back now closer to where we saw it. Importantly, I would tell you that if you look at contract renewals, and I made a comment to this in the prepared remarks, we're seeing near 100% contract renewal on our corporates importantly, they're getting renegotiated at higher prices. Obviously, corporates are focused on EVs as an alternative to put their employees in to satisfy their own ESG commitment, but the corporate business is feeling quite good, very strong.

I'd also make one other comment to you, which is not just simply about corporate nor about inbound, but about the totality of travel, which is this last Sunday, if you look at TSA figures, they processed on Sunday about 1.7 million travelers across the United States. What's interesting is that if you look at the 4 prior Sundays, they were all consistent in at about 1.2 million. Now one week doesn't make a trend, but steady at 1.2 and then a jump to 1.7, and you just listened to what you hear from the airlines and hotels let alone what we're telling you about our own business. And it seems that travel has been pacing well.

One last point on corporate, I would raise with you, and that is if you look at the pattern of corporate demand, it too is changing for the better for us, meaning, over the course of 2022, we saw an increase by about 20% for about 1.5 days to the duration of a corporate rental. That means that people are keeping that car longer. The way in which that's manifesting itself as a person is on a business trip, they may extend by a day and then extend by two more days to keep a weekend in sort of the combination of both leisure and business that as days, by definition, to the rental, and that's been quite beneficial to us in terms of overall activity.

Kenny Cheung

Just one point to add. International inbounds, when they come back and Stephen pointed out, they'll be buying VAS and they're very profitable to our business. But right now, despite even, what I would say, softness on international inbound, versus '19, we are seeing VAS of double digit, right? So structurally, our improved VAS program is definitely working. And in corporate, even though we are seeing very, very strong renewals on -- with the economics. The rates on the corporate are lower than RAC, but it is RPU-accretive because they come in midweek and helps with utilization.

Operator

Our next question comes from the line of John Healy with Northcoast Research.

John Healy

Stephen, why don't you just to touch a little bit about free cash flow. I was hoping you could give us some guardrails to maybe think about that in 2023. Obviously, I know you're not giving formal guidance on it, but would just love to think about kind of non-fleet CapEx, just corporate CapEx. Anything related to cash maybe going into the funding facilities. It sounds like you have ample equity already in there. But just maybe some guardrails to think about that for this year.

Stephen Scherr

Sure. Listen, I just -- I think to give you a context, obviously, the magnitude of gain on sale that we saw at very elevated prices in the early part of 2022, is unlikely to repeat itself. And so the task in front of us is to replace, right, lost EBITDA and, therefore, lost free cash flow that was attributable to gain on sale, order of magnitude with fundamental performance in the business. And I think what you're hearing from us is we believe we will see better on volume, better on rate we'll see that sort of play out throughout the year. We're seeing continued growth, as we've just spoken about across all channels. We're going to start to execute on the growth elements of the business to generate EBITDA and free cash flow, whether that's in margin-accretive activity around the rideshare business or what we do around Dollar Thrifty as we get back to the back half of the year, all of that will be a benefit and considerable offset to what we see decline in terms of gain.

Now it's hard to read and extrapolate off of the first, call it, five weeks of the year. But in the first five weeks, you heard Kenny say we've seen a reversal of the direction that residual prices were taking. And therefore, that carries the potential upside to preserve gain on sale, certainly not at the levels that we saw last year but as an offset to perhaps what we thought we might realize over '23 as we were ending '22. So again, that's going to play to sort of overall sort of free cash flow dynamics that are there.

I would say there's nothing that we see to siphon free cash flow into the ABS facility. Of course, that could always change, but what you're hearing from us is based on very conservative assumptions about forward price movement in cars, which were not -- which we don't think will necessarily see. But nonetheless, for modeling purposes, we feel we're well positioned in the ABS facility with no need to sort of fund it as it were across the whole of 2023 itself. So that will not be a siphon.

I think as it relates to fleet, we're going to be very, very attentive to the kind of rules and the boundaries that we've set for ourselves. The extent to which we spend cash on fleet will be totally a function of ROA that is fleeting inside the forward demand curve and effectively and efficiently deploying capital against fleet will be the way in which we will do it. And as I said before, we're going to look for the lowest cost investment to meet the customer need, which is looking hard at cap cost, maintenance, depreciation out of service, all of that is going to feed into an ROA model so that we're not going to simply look to deplete free cash flow simply because we have a hunch about where we want a fleet. We're going to be fleeting smart. Much of that is going to happen in the first half of the year, as Kenny said, as we build the sort of a market demand level in Q2 and Q3, and then it will come back down in Q4. And that's kind of the dynamics that you'll see us sort of play with, in the context of free cash flow management.

John Healy

And I thought I had to ask this question because it's come up a few times in your prepared remarks, the ROA comment. Is there a way to think about an ROA level that you view as acceptable or that you've kind of tasked the team with trying to achieve maybe in the near term and maybe over the long term?

Stephen Scherr

Well, I think -- I mean, listen, you want to be -- the way I would say it is, it's all relative to sort of the competing uses of cash in the business, okay? So we're going to look for a return on the invested dollar in fleet as measured against what we see in terms of the return profile of nonfleet CapEx to the business and equally what we see in the context of share repurchase. They're all valid uses of capital and we need to make relative judgments, not absolute judgments in terms of where we deploy do.

And if the return on the fleet is going to pay handsomely relative to other uses, we'll put it there. If there is long-term value to the return profile of a Dollar into nonfleet CapEx, obviously, we're going to look at that. So capital allocation is going to be subject to great rigor, and I'd hate to put a particular number down and say we need it or not. It's all a relative judgment. And obviously, long term, our desire is to keep a very high sort of pull through to free cash flow right, from the EBITDA number. And on a steady-state basis, I'd like that number to continue to be 70% or thereabout in terms of just the efficiency and the pull-through of EBITDA in through free cash flow. That doesn't mean it's going to happen every quarter or it happen every year, but I think you should view that as the target that we want to operate to and the relative sort of outlay and allocation of free cash flow will be subject to the rigors of return.

Kenny Cheung

Yes. And just to build on that one. In a steady state, John, right, if you just think the free cash flow build, right, you have EBITDA to operating cash flow, that's 90%, which proved to be correct this year. And then you also have in a steady state, you would have the fleet size, cap costs, et cetera, would be somewhat steady. So nonfleet growth will be minimal in that equation. So -- and then, call it, not CapEx, call it, close to historical levels. Is that how you walk to the 70% of conversion from EBITDA.

Operator

Our next question comes from the line of Adam Jonas with Morgan Stanley.

Adam Jonas

Well, for Steve and Kenny, thanks for all the details, and it really does help us model and helps manage expectations, so well done for that. But the one thing you left out is on fleet interest expense outlook, $159 million last year, it's down about 45% year-on-year and well down $400 million from a few years ago pre-COVID. Now I know things have changed. But as your hedges roll and you see a step-up in funding costs from the ABS market, what should we be thinking about on fleet interest costs for 2023? And then I have a follow-up.

Stephen Scherr

Sure. So I'll have Kenny give you sort of some precision around the numbers, but the hedges that we have in there, Adam, are going to roll on the forward. We're obviously watching and managing them. These are not new to me just given what I did before. And so they've proven to be very valuable to us in locking in sort of the cost function of the interest expense.

Kenny, maybe you want to speak to sort of the numbers themselves.

Kenny Cheung

Yes. So if you think about our structure on the debt stack, right? So roughly 75% of our costs are fixed base, right? And then most of majority -- the majority of our costs are on the ABS side. And roughly 80% of that is fixed as well. Last year, our blended cost was roughly 2.5% is very effective from a cost borrowing standpoint. Entering this year, we expect this number to be roughly around 3% to 3.5%, Adam, for -- on the EPS side. As Stephen mentioned, we have hedges in place. So for example, roughly 40% of the ABS is variable funding notes we are contractually to have caps in place on those. And right now, they're currently in the money as we speak. And we sell this going through the P&L in Q4.

Adam Jonas

Just to clarify that before my follow-up, you're saying 3% to 3.5% of the ABS side, but with hedges in place, that are in the money, you might have up better than that. We should be thinking that, that could be even better than that in terms on fleet interest?

Kenny Cheung

Yes. 3% to 3.5% with caps. Yes, 3% to 3.5% gross.

Adam Jonas

And just, Steve, your point on using conservative and prudent assumptions. I think you made that point many times. I didn't know if there was any way you could tell us what your assumptions are on Manheim throughout the year or a range of that? Presumably, it's further declined, but I didn't know what we should be thinking of in there because you're still allowing for $50 per unit of gain on sale. I don't recall how normal that is to have that order of magnitude gain on sale. But any color there without holding it to a specific index our -- of course, of course.

Stephen Scherr

Sure. Yes, of course, of course. I would say the following. As you would expect, we model, particularly around the ABS facility on a very conservative basis because I don't want a surprise. And so I want to understand what the risk is to us having to put equity into the ABS facility under a variety of sort of scenarios. And so we model to an annual decline in residual pricing that's probably a couple of hundred basis points wide of what the indices sort of publicly report, okay? Now those vary, and they depend on which segment of the fleet population you look at but I think we model on a conservative basis. And then I look at kind of standard deviation movement to price to sort of understand what's our risk level and tolerance against those very conservative assumptions we believe that there's no scenario as we look forward, whereby we're going to be required to sort of put money into the ABS.

Now anything can change, but I think we take a fairly conservative set of assumptions. Now carry that assumption about residual price decline in '23. And I would say that we are on the conservative side, again, carrying that over from the ABS analysis into what we think gain on sale will be. And so I think that we look at what's playing out over the last five weeks. We look at what we're harvesting in terms of the increasing utilization of Carvana and our own proprietary channel, where we capture 5% to 7% premium to what we get in the wholesale market, take all of that together, and I'm still quite optimistic about the ability to harvest fairly have some gain on sale. It won't be what it was at the top of 2022, but there's enough in there, right, to offset gross depreciation. So that's a little bit of the narrative, Adam, in terms of how we think about residual decline relative to the market, primarily for ABS, but then carrying it over to sort of sort out what we think expected gain on sale will be, again, both through wholesale and again, an increasing use of premium channels.

Operator

Our next question comes from the line of Ryan Brinkman with JPMorgan.

Ryan Brinkman

I heard in the prepared remarks that like in 2022, you expect to be agile in '23 in allocating capital between capital spending, share repurchases and other initiatives. First, maybe just other initiatives, what is this? This is spending apart from CapEx? Is it acquisition? What are the other initiatives? And then what are the current priorities in that hierarchy for capital spending? And then what would you say are like the major factors that would cause you to allocate capital differently to remain agile as 2023 plays out in your share price, interest rates, travel trends? Or what should we be thinking about?

Stephen Scherr

Well, I think the truth is you listed them all out. I mean the fact is that capital allocation sort of comes in what I would describe as sort of three categories, okay? We look at fleet, we look at non-fleet and we look at the opportunity to engage in share repurchase, okay? And we probably look at them in that order with the ability to sort of play in all three, okay? We've talked a lot about fleet and how we think about it. We maintain a level of control around fleet relative to demand, and we're looking to sort of optimize the return on that in terms of the amount of money that we put against it, okay? On non-fleet, we will continue to invest in the fundamental sort of foundational elements of the company so that we can execute effectively in our core business and around growth initiatives.

It means technology, it means human capital. It means putting tools in the hands of our employees -- and all of that equally is accretive to us the way in which the business is run and then we look at where share repurchase otherwise sits. When I speak about other initiatives, there are small immaterial opportunities for us, for example, to look at certain franchises that were sold, okay, during bankruptcy, which I think in the better light of day, we sooner own than have as a franchise. These are mostly U.S.-based opportunities. And the ability to potentially buy in one or two of those. Again, I want to be crystal clear. These are immaterial. They are very small. They'd be in the category of bolt-on acquisitions, but they would prove to be accretive to sort of the performance of the company overall. We will look at those as and when they present themselves, but that won't be realized from kind of what we're looking at in terms of fleet and non-fleet and again, what we do in terms of share repurchase itself.

Ryan Brinkman

And then just last one for me. What is the very latest in terms of what you're thinking in terms of the implications of the inflation Reduction Act on commercial EV purchases and the potential impact to Hertz.

Stephen Scherr

Well, I think we're still in a mind that, again, separate out what the provisions that were for individuals, okay, as opposed to provisions that were guided towards us because they were two separate pieces of the legislation. As it relates to us, we still view ourselves as being in a position to benefit from the tax credits. There's still sort of elements of that and rulemaking that will need to go on, the devil will inevitably be in the detail, but we view that benefit as being consequential to us on forward EV purchases. There have been some changes on the individual sort of purchase side where classifications of certain cars have opened up and the like. But as it relates to Hertz proper were of no different view about the benefit of that tax credit that will play to us in the forward sort of acquisition of EVs.

Operator

Our next question comes from the line of Christopher Stathoulopoulos with SIG.

Christopher Stathoulopoulos

Stephen, could you elaborate on your comments around the sharp reversal in price declines of used vehicles in your prepared comments. I know you subsequently touched on that, but any more color there, the drivers, your view of the current market and your thoughts on that into the spring? And then I have a follow-up.

Stephen Scherr

Yes, of course. So in -- I want to say, in each of the last four or five weeks, we have seen a tick up in the residual value of cars as computed by Manheim and other indices, okay? It's important to recognize that there's a general pool of cars that they look at and then there is a fleet view, which is obviously more relevant to us. Both have been up, but we obviously watch sort of where we are. And that has been obviously beneficial in the context of how we think about the overall performance of the company and what we think we can do in terms of the movement of cars and gain that we can capture as against that.

As for the factors that are guiding it, I would say that new cars remain elevated in price and at a premium in terms of availability. And I think that coming out of kind of a trough period for purchase I think people who are in need of cars are coming to the recognition that a new car, if available, is still at an elevated price point and they're otherwise coming back to the used car market as a source for buying a car. And so I think this is a little bit of the dynamic as to where the OEMs are forecasting sort of opportunities, the price that they're holding and what that means in terms of people coming back into the used car market as a source of a vehicle for them to buy. But it's been fairly consistent in the context of the first four or five weeks of the year.

Kenny Cheung

Yes. I'll add two things. I think not only have we seen the week-over-week increases, as Stephen mentioned, we're -- we also see retention. They're actually holding those prices as well, which bodes well for future indication. And then we're also coming up spring break in March, April time frame, which is seasonality, one of the strongest moments for used car sales.

Christopher Stathoulopoulos

And my follow-up. So I'm curious, -- as it relates to the airlines, obviously, the airport business, given the challenge the airlines have been having and will likely continue to have with respect to capacity and their ability to handle harsh weather versus what's been an ongoing momentum in demand recovery. Is that dynamic at all reflected in your outlook? I know that you spoke to some pressure on the top line and perhaps some costs, I believe it was with the BOM cycle in December. And this sort of this dynamic persists. Is that contemplated and how you're thinking about the guidance or your business going forward?

Stephen Scherr

Yes. Well, I think the reference we made and that you just made now, just sort of Christmas, I think, is pretty telling in that what we would have lost because you obviously experienced cancellations to the extent that there are airline cancellations as a customer doesn't arrive, we saw a meaningful pickup in one-way rentals, as I had mentioned. And those come kind of with the benefit of being at a higher rate. And then equally, they repositioned cars from areas where we need them less to where we need them more and to avoid spending a couple of thousand dollars on the transportation of a car, that's a benefit.

And so there's a wash, if not a positive benefit to that, not that we wish the circumstances that played out in Christmas to happen, but I think we are positioned to be able to respond to it. Now the way we respond to it is a little bit of a function of what I said in response to the question earlier about the business performing better. We have a better insight into pricing. We have a better insight into how we manage the fleet. All of that are elements that enable us to be very quick and very responsive to sort of changing circumstances in travel.

I would also point out that there are very few car rental companies that can respond to what we saw in Christmas relative to Hertz. Now there are other majors that can but there are a myriad of smaller players that are not in a position to put their customers in one-way rentals in the way in which we can. And I think that's a very big deal to the extent that customers are going to be anxious about disruption to airline travel, they will know that if they're in a Hertz, if they are in a Hertz rental that we're going to be in a position to serve them no matter where they get rerouted or how they want to get to where they get to. That's a competitive edge for us relative to smaller niche players in the rental car industry. And I think when it's tough, you want to be able to sort of rely on a company to deliver and we did in Christmas, and we will should those disruptions sort of happen again.

Operator

This concludes today's question-and-answer session. I'd now like to hand the call back to Stephen Scherr, Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead.

Stephen Scherr

So thank you all for your participation today. We look forward to sharing further updates with you all certainly on our next call, if not before. And with that, I'll turn it back to the operator.

Operator

