Good day, and welcome to the Power Solutions International Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.

Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Gary Dvorchak, Managing Director of The Blueshirt Group. Sir you may begin

Gary Dvorchak

Thank you, Rocky. Good afternoon, everyone. We're pleased that you're joining jus for the Power Solutions International Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.

Speaking on the call today are Gary Winemaster, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Eric Cohen, Chief Operating Officer and Daniel Gorey, Chief Financial Officer.

By now everyone should have access to the press release that we announced today. If you have not received the press release, it's available on the Investor Relations portion of Power Solutions website at www.psiengines.com.

Before we begin, I would like to remind you that the information in today's press release and remarks made by our executives on this call may include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on information currently available to the company and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual financial results, performance, prospects and opportunities to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the factors identified in our news release and in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You may access any of these filings at www.sec.gov.

Please note that the information provided on this call should be considered current only as of today. Except as expressly required by the federal securities laws, we undertakes no duty to update that information.

Finally I want to mention that a replay of the call can be accessed afterwards and will be available for approximately one year.

With that I would like to turn the call over to the Company's Chairman and CEO, Gary Winemaster. Gary?

Gary Winemaster

Thank you, Gary and thank you everyone for joining our call.

I want to start the call by elaborating on a major strategic development we announced in April, the acquisition of Powertrain Integration. Then our COO, Eric Cohen will offer more detail on our Q2 operating highlights. Our CFO, Dan Gorey will discuss the details of our financial results and then I will conclude with a discussion of our outlook.

First I need to reiterate my satisfaction with our strong execution delivered by the PSI team again this quarter. We're still battling headwind in one of our core markets oil and gas and we're busy integrating three acquisitions as well as one from last year.

On last quarter's call we told you we expected to deliver modest revenue growth. In fact, we grew revenue by 13% year-over-year. That is modest in comparison to historical growth rate, but is still impressive when compared to the broader universe of companies.

This quarter was one of significant strategic importance for us due to the Powertrain acquisition. Although we discussed it on our call last quarter, I want to circle back with a deeper dive because we are not sure investors truly grasp its relevance.

We closed the deal on May 19 and already PI as we call it is making important contributions. The revenue contribution is straightforward. PI Added sales to the quarter and was accretive in earnings in the quarter. However, the strategic contribution is far more important.

As a combined company, we believe that we're better positioned strategically than our competitors to pursue the Class 3 to 6 medium duty truck market both here in the U.S. and overseas. We already had a strong relationship with Navistar and now with PI we also have an exceptionally close relationship with Freightliner.

Those two OEMs combined serve a large percentage of the medium duty truck market. PI also brings us a close relationship with Thomas Built School Buses. The combined market share of Thomas Built and Navistar's IC Bus is nearly 70%.

Our design wins at both of these OEMs indicate to us that school bus can be a significant [non-enrolling] [ph] contributor for years to come. Based on publicly available reports, we believe the engine market for school buses is around $700 million annually. While alternative fuel engines currently capture more than 12% of that already today and net share is trending higher.

With PI another strategic initiative for PSI is to accelerate opportunities we're pursuing in China, which is the largest medium duty vehicle market in the world. While not formally announce news circulated that the largest bus producer in China Yutong, selected our six liter GM engine for its new T7 model bus.

It's too early to estimate the demand for the T7 bus since Yutong is just starting its marketing efforts now. However considering that Yutong sells at least 60,000 busses a year we expect T7 demand to ultimately be at least in the thousands of units and could conceivably go to 10,000 of units a year. Demand is already so strong that we are air freighting engines to China to fulfil orders for Yutong.

Along those lines as Yutong, we just announced the Supply Agreement with JAC Motors, one of the top three small to medium bus producers in China. They are rolling out a new luxury mini bus and intend to use our 4.8 litre engine. In this first program with JAC we expect to ramp to 1,500 to 2,000 units a year by 2018.

The market opportunity actually extends beyond China. JAC busses are already popular in Saudi Arabia, Russia, throughout South America and Africa. In addition to Yutong and JAC we also started programs with four more leading commercial truck or bus OEMs in China that should go into production in 2016.

We will discuss more details about those programs as they mature and the customers announce them.

When we look at all the on-road opportunities, we couldn’t be more enthusiastic about the years ahead. School bus is a large -- is large in North America and we could dominate there.

Fleet vehicles such as UPS trucks are only just starting to convert away from diesel to alternative fuels and gasoline. We're seeing early success in the largest markets in the world, China with most of the premier on-highway OEMs and of course we have additional marketing efforts and process, which we cannot discuss since those will impact the OEM's competitive position.

A couple of years ago we said that on-road should eventually make us a $1 billion a year company, generating half of those sales. We still believe that this is the case and we’re even more confident in the outlook with PI now being part of our team.

Now let me turn the call over to our COO, Eric Cohen to discuss additional quarterly operating highlights. Eric?

Eric Cohen

Thank you, Gary. I will review our other acquisitions, touch on conditions in our industrial markets and then will turn the call over to Dan for financial results.

Gary covered the PI acquisition but in addition we were integrating two other acquisitions in the quarter. Buck's Engines which we closed late in Q1 delivered $3 million of revenue in the quarter. We will complete all the integration activities by the end of Q3 after which their sales should be hitting our profitability targets.

By the end of this month, we will have moved all productions from Oklahoma to our plant here in Wood Dale. We expect substantial savings relative to their standalone costs based on the production shift and preliminary redundancies etcetera.

In addition to savings, Buck’s expands our product line, reduces competition and gains us access to new customers. In contrast, the Bi-Phase integration is just getting started. Keep in mind that this was mainly a technology driven acquisition. Basically we now own what we have been buying allowing us to control and improve the quality.

Furthermore we intend to move their operation down here to Wood Dale from Minneapolis in the fall. This integration is expected to produce cost savings of around $1,000 per unit for each propane fuel system.

Moving on to our industrial markets it is not surprising that large oilfield generators impacted our results. Earlier this year we made the case that our business is more immune than others to the lower price of oil because free flare gas as fuel is a component cost savings.

Furthermore, we're more exposed to changes in producing wells and much less so to exploration, which grabs the headlines with rig counts and the like. We believe this exposure has moderated the decline in the segment for us.

Nonetheless the lower oil price is still resulting in cuts to CapEx budgets in general, which is impacting us. We generated $120 million of[O&G] [ph] revenue in 2014 but our latest outlook for 2015 is to be modestly down from that level.

A [fast] [ph] down year in oil and gas is by no means disastrous for us but the uncertainty in this market does create a headwind to growth for us. I do want to mention one regulatory change that could ultimately yield long-term opportunity for us in the generator business.

A court recently overturned an EPA rule that waived certain emission regulations for what are called demand response generators. If you are not familiar with the term demand response, they refer to the practice of large electricity users agreeing to cut back on usage during periods of high demand, for instance during heat wave. When those users cut back on their grid draw, they generate their own power usually using diesel fuel generators. The EPA had exempted those generators from emission regulations because they were only run intermittently.

Because that exemption was overturned, EPA rules now say that even those generators must be clean, [indiscernible] various standards for diesel engine emissions. Our clean burning natural gas engines are an attractive solution for new or replacement generators. We expect this rule change to create meaningful incremental sales into generator market over time.

Finally I need the address the situation of 3PI, our large packing subsidiary in Wisconsin. 3PI continues to underperform our expectations for it and we took aggressive actions in the first half to likely shift source fleet. We expect these actions to result in a meaningful swing and performance in 2016 but we picked them another quarter or two for the changes to gain traction.

Dan will mention the calculator of 3PI is losing money now with its nasty underling earnings power of PSI as a whole. 3PI has suffered from mix of issues, one with largest customer in 2013, which is a household industrial name. In 2014, we directed almost all of its engine output in the generator market to transportation.

Recall that we supply all the highly engineered packaging around the engine, which our customer will then sell into its end markets. Temporarily we're losing one of our largest customers serving that path, but we believe the redirections of transportations have permanent and we will again be selling to this customer next year.

We're sharply now focused on high end, highly engineered customer requirements. Customer engineered packaging is really our bread and butter and benefits our capabilities. It's also more value added and higher margin.

This restored focus on engineered packaging is especially important for emerging opportunities like combined heat and power. We're starting to see traction in this effort.

In addition, we're working on the control improvements to address issues that arose from shipments in 2013 before the acquisition. We've overhauled our quality control passes and feel comfortable that customer satisfaction will be quite high if the systems move.

While the changes are being driven by the new management we installed this year, the new CEO, Tom Smith has the right experience and skills to get results and he spoke with the great new team including changes in our manufacturing and sales staff.

Based on what we see today, we expect improved operating results in 3PI for the balance of the year. This includes getting back cash in Q4 and return to full profitability in 2016.

I'll turn the call over to our CFO, Dan Gorey to discuss our financial results in detail. Dan?

Dan Gorey

Thank you, Eric and hello, everyone. I'll review our operating results and financial condition in more detail and then return the call to Gary for our outlook. Here's the details of our second quarter 2015 financial performance.

Net sales for the second quarter were $94.6 million compared to $83.4 million last year. Organic sales grew about 3% due primarily to increased sales in our material handling end market. Our aftermarket condition continues to perform well and was also a contributor to the sales increase.

These increases were offset somewhat by declines in revenue in oil and gas and the 3PI. The acquisition of Powertrain Integration which closed on May 19 added $5.9 million of revenue during the quarter. The bus acquisition, which closed in late March contributed $2.9 million. Together these acquisitions represent 11% of the growth in the quarter.

Our gross margin for the second quarter was 14.4% consistent with the 15.5% of gross margin in the second quarter last year. Second quarter gross margin declined from the first quarter's 19.1% gross margin and principally due to the decline in heavy duty engine sales.

We estimate that the challenges of 3PI will reduce gross margin by approximately 150 basis points. So our results are still meaningful.

Operating expenses which include research development, selling and service and general administrative cost came in at $12.9 million for the second quarter. Operating expenses were 13.6% of sales this quarter, which compares to last year’s 11.4% of sales in last quarter's 14.4% in sales.

R&D spending in the quarter was $6.2 million up from $3.7 million in the second quarter of last year. We continue to make significant investments in R&D spending both for industrial as well as on-road applications.

Selling expense in the quarter was $2.8 million compared to $2.3 million last year. The increase was in part related to the inclusion of incremental selling expense attributable to our acquired businesses. In addition selling expense increased due to the increase in sales volume.

General and administrative expense increased to $3.9 million from $3.4 million last year. G&A expense increased due to transaction cost in the quarter up $247,000 along with the inclusion of incremental G&A on our required businesses since the date of the acquisition.

Operating income for the second quarter was $4.5 million, which compares to $5.9 million last year. Operating margin was 4.7% in the quarter compared to 7.1% last year. Operating margin was 5% in both the second and the first quarters of 2015 after adjusting for transaction cost.

Interest expense was $1.1 million in the current quarter compared to $381,000 last year due to the higher level of borrowings, which includes the issuance of $55 million in senior notes. I will discuss those shortly.

Other income and expense includes the revaluation of our warrant liability. Our April 2011 private placement included warrants to liability for which we are required to carry on our balance sheet at fair value. Each quarter the change in value must be run through the income statement.

This is a non-cash item that for GAAP accounting purposes impacts the bottom line. This quarter, we booked non-cash income of $2.9 million resulting from a decrease in the estimated fair value of the warrant liability. The values of these warrants will change regularly, so you should expect to see valuation adjustments both positive and negative in future quarters.

Therefore we encourage investors to look at our results both with and without the warrant valuation in accessing our performance on a quarterly basis.

The GAAP fully diluted earnings per share were $0.18 in the second quarter compared to $0.34 a year ago. Removing the effects of the warrant revaluation and transaction cost, the company earned $2.2 million or $0.19 per share in our current quarter.

This compares to adjusted net income of $3.4 million or $0.31 per share in our second quarter last year. The losses incurred on 3PI had a $0.13 per share impact on current quarter earnings per share.

Now let’s discuss the balance sheet and liquidity. Our balance sheet is solid with $162 million of working capital, which includes about $6.1 million in cash. We had about $95 million in shareholder’s equity as of June 30.

Our credit facility and borrowings of $105 million as of quarter end, this left about $17.4 million available under the facility withstanding with the bank and its compliance with all covenants.

On April 29, the company issued $55 million in unsecured 5.5% senior notes in May 1, 2018, with slight issuance along with our bank credit facility gets us to resources to fund our near term operating and capital needs.

That concludes my comments; let me now turn the call back to Gary to discuss our outlook. Gary?

Gary Winemaster

Thanks Dan. Our results this quarter give us confidence in our business model and the sustainability of our growth. The PI acquisition further solidifies our optimism about the probability of success in the on-road.

Our line of sight and roadmap to our long-term outlook has never been clear. Having said that, we must recognize the near term challenges we face and thus are lowering our guidance for the balance of 2015.

We expect Q3 revenue in the range of $110 million to $130 million and Q4 revenue in the range of $140 million to $160 million. That puts our full year outlook in the range of $430 million to $470 million. For 2016, we expect sales in the range of $550 million to $570 million.

The change in guidance is based on three elements. First, we expected to come down from our spectacular 2014 growth in oil and gas, but the sluggishness in the sector is just greater than we first thought it would be.

Although the addressable market is still quite large with a millions producing well scattered around the U.S. CapEx is simply being reduced until the oil price stabilizes. We expect to be flat to down somewhat in the oil and gas this year.

The second element is the delay in the 4,000 series heavy duty program, which we expected to contribute around $25 million in revenue this year in our heavy duty program.

Our supply partner has delayed production due to some issues with the directed supplier. We do expect the program to start production next year. Finally Eric will review the issues at 3P/I. Really all I can say is that we have recognized our challenges and are taking aggressive action to right the shift.

We’re also learning from those challenges and so far our integration efforts on this year’s acquisitions are going for more smoothly.

So using our midpoint for reference we originally guided to around $510 million of sales for this year. We are now -- assume we will lose $25 million of anticipated revenue on the heavy duty program, $20 million of anticipated revenue due to oil and gas slowing and $15 million of anticipated revenues of 3PI.

Obviously we're disappointed that we're unlikely to reach our original goal but we want to put it in perspective. At our mid-point we should still grow revenue nearly 30% this year, which is very admirable for a company of disrupting nature, mature, industrial and transportation markets.

Although we're lowering our 2016 outlook in tandem, we remain very optimistic about next year. The incremental revenue we expect represents more than 20%. More importantly, we're comfortable with our visibility. We're using our 2015 outlook as a baseline and believe we can achieve the 2016 guidance based on success in the on-road alone.

Earlier in my remarks, I reviewed many of the on-road opportunities we see coming both in the U.S. and in China. We feel confident that we are -- our continued good execution, our 2016 outlook is reasonable.

In fact it will meet our goals we will continue to be what we consider to be one of the best road companies in the U.S. Using our current mid-point outlook through 2016 that represents a five-year compounded growth rate of nearly 30% in sales. Keep in mind that 2011 we earned somewhat over $6 million for the year -- full year.

In 2014, we are earning that amount on a quarterly basis. We have an outstanding track record, but we are not resting on our laws. We see great opportunities ahead especially in on-road, which we have barely began to tap. We've never been more optimistic about the long-term outlook for PSI.

Now let me turn the call over to the operator for questions and answers. Operator?

Question-and-Answer Session

Operator

[Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Alex Potter with Piper Jaffray.

Alex Potter

Hi guys. I was wondering if you could I guess comment on your degree of confidence and visibility in the new oil and gas guidance, there have been some other companies in the sector where revenue almost goes away entirely, is there a risk that there could be similar or more cuts I guess in the future for this segment or do you feel like you've taken a sufficiently conservative stance here?

Dan Gorey

We feel that we've taken conservative stance. Obviously we're talking to our customers and based on today’s oil prices, I think that our position and our estimates are conservative than I think that we can deliver those.

Alex Potter

Okay, you mentioned flat to down a bit in oil and gas; if you could go market-by-market for instance in the material handling business where do you expect to be there? How is NACCO going? What would your ballpark guess be for a year-over-year growth in that segment and then or I guess I’ll just stop there and maybe talk about that one?

Dan Gorey

[Indiscernible] information. We don’t give out -- I can talk in some generality Alex to give you a sense of what's going on. Material Handling is performing very well. It was a good source of growth in the quarter, it will be good source of growth in the second half.

Our relationship with Hyster-Yale is good. We have a dedicated line you may know that that’s delivering engines to them and we will continue to expect to see increases in volume in that program.

Aftermarket continues to be kind of its unsung hero over here. It’s the highest gross margin business that we have and it’s rolling along with the general growth, in other words about 30% a year.

If I remember correctly I got to look back out and seems like we’re taking about $10 million in overall growth from that aftermarket business. So when you really look at the business and how it’s behaving, it’s behaving well, right. We're not seeing a slowdown in our end markets with the exception of oil and gas, right.

Where we expected I think to see a little bit more robust activity than we are feeling. So really the guidance if we adjusted it is really related to that and then to a more limited extent to some of the headwinds we’re facing at 3PI.

Alex Potter

I was wondering a bit if maybe you could elaborate on the heavy-duty supplier delays maybe just qualitatively what exactly is going on there?

Gary Winemaster

Well, I would say that the relationship is obviously with Caterpillar Perkins and we had a challenge from a directed supplier that they wanted in the development of the engine and so it has pushed us back to where we had anticipated the ability to sell those engines this year.

We have demand, pent-up demand for those products, but the ability to finish the development has been pushed back. We're confident in the product and in the supplier and I think that we’re working the issues out with the directed supply component and next year we hope to have that product prepared to sell and realize at least the $25 million that we had slated for this year.

Alex Potter

Okay, and maybe one last quick one I will slide in and then jump back in queue. Last quarter you mentioned that you had expected to start getting orders for the propane engine going into school bus from Navistar in June and July. Did that play out as you had expected?

Gary Winemaster

We are in production. The orders probably were about a month delayed, but we are now in production and moving forward.

Alex Potter

Okay. Thanks.

Operator

We will go next to Rob Brown with Lake Street Capital Markets.

Rob Brown

Good afternoon. So you talked about your $500 million in the on-road market, how do you see that developing between the U.S. and the China market? I guess how is that split developing in your mind?

Eric Cohen

Yes, we -- originally we still feel that the U.S. market alone is a $500 million market that represents selling anywhere from 20,000 to 30,000 units depending on the value and with the opportunities and programs we have here that is still very achievable.

Keep in mind now that we penetrated Freightliner and Navistar, those two represent the majority of that medium duty and bus markets here in the U.S. and so we feel in U.S. alone we have good opportunity.

But we’re starting to also see as China is accelerating their efforts for using fuels that are alternative to diesel in that both PI and PSI have been working with multiple OEMs in China and those are the ones that Gary released there. So I think China offers us a path to get to the $500 million faster than if we just did in the U.S. alone.

Rob Brown

Okay. That’s great color. Thank you. And then on the margin, gross margin structure with your new guidance, how do you see that trending relative to what you've been reporting? Should it be stable or should it come it, should it go up, how do we think about gross margin?

Dan Gorey

Yes, gross margins in Q3 Rob I would model down a bit, they're probably going to fall somewhere in the low to mid-17s and part of that is really the decline as you would expect the decline in oil and gas.

We’ve also got - [indiscernible] little bit due to how purchase accounting works related to the acquisitions and in the near-term inventory backlog needed to be written-off at Powertrain Integration.

There is an example the Powertrain natural gross margins are around 18% to 19%, this quarter is an example because of purchase accounting they were around 14%. So that is an adjustment that goes away in a couple of quarters.

But it will impact us in our third quarter, goes away in the fourth quarter and then they get back to their more normalized natural gross margins.

Rob Brown

Okay. That’s great color, Thank you very much.

Operator

We’ll go next to Eric Stine with Craig-Hallum.

Eric Stine

Hi everyone.

Dan Gorey

Hey Eric.

Eric Stine

Maybe we can just start with RV market, I know that’s something that you have touched on in the past and now with PI just maybe the outlook for that, what are the next steps we should look for? Is it OEM partnerships engine testing, details there would be great?

Gary Winemaster

Yes, we have a product that is unique to that market and we are - with the relationship with PI we believe that we will have a product to fill the larger chassis builders for that space. We believe the opportunity is north of $200 million.

And I think the one thing that we will have is the most powerful package available. Up until now that market has been underpowered in the spark engines that would be gasoline.

So we will now provide similar performance to diesel and I think that that will be a welcomed opportunity. In the day when workhorse was selling into that market, the GM8.1 there was 24,000 8.1s sold into RV market.

We believe that we will recapture some of those volumes as we start to provide a product with better performance than the old GM 8.1.

Eric Stine

Okay. And is that something that you think is potentially 2016 event?

Dan Gorey

Well we hope that we will -- it will definitely take some design and validation. We've done a lot of that work. But we hope to see it at the tail end of 2016 and we hope to have some programs started that we can talk about also in the beginning of 2016.

Eric Stine

Okay, all right and then maybe I’m just wondering I guess little bit longer term, but just how you’re positioned also now the two combined companies with going after the long-life vehicle opportunity.

I know that the coastal services out with an RFP they're targeting 2018 I believe is the year, but with Freightliner and Morgan Olson what’s your outlook there?

Dan Gorey

Yes so we are working with many of the leading players. We're really not liberty to say exactly what’s going on, but I will say that the post office is looking at a number of solutions and not just in vehicles and we actually do you have engine solutions that we’ve already developed that address that post office needs well ahead of time.

And we’ve actually been working with those suppliers with the post office for many years now.

Eric Stine

Okay maybe last one for me just materials handling and I know you’re seeing very good growth there, but it seems like it’s more than the mix shift from Naco, so just anything in terms of new customers if you could share that and just curious what the competitive response has been in the market to some of the share gains you’ve made?

Dan Gorey

Well we've definitely increased market share. I think that we’ve historically talked about our major competitors being Nissan and Mazda and with the win at Hyster-Yale, we’re able to end the Mazda business into that space.

There’s been news about the Nissan product being sold. So there’s some recent questions around that, I think that that probably puts us in a very good position going forward to capture some business from our leading competitors today.

Eric Stine

Okay. Thanks a lot.

Operator

[Operator Instructions] We’ll go next to Craig Irwin with Roth Capital Partners.

Craig Irwin

Hi good evening and thank you for taking my questions. So Gary you’re obviously very disappointed to reduce your guidance to I guess the midpoint of 30% growth but when we speak to some of the component suppliers out there they're telling us that there’s a major crucial engines manufacturer especially guiding them to expect business to be down about 30% year-over-year.

Can you maybe discuss generally with us the character of your business, your customer programs, your customer relationships that are allowing you to see much sustainable demand and even growth in this environment that’s so challenging for others?

Gary Winemaster

One of the things that I think is a huge benefit to our company is that we have a few agnostic strategies for our highway market. All of our products can run on CNG, LNG, LPG or gasoline.

With some of the delays that certain segments of alternative fuel business have seen we still have a great demand for gasoline. So it has allowed us to get OEMs to continue the integration of our product into their platforms for gasoline and be ready for the demand as it comes forward with natural gas and LP.

I think that we’re probably one of the few companies that have that luxury. Some of the companies that you may be talking about maybe strictly natural gas or strictly propane and they’re seeing slowing as the price of oil has come down they and hit some of the other fuels temporarily more attractive.

So I think it still keeps the momentum that we have going and I think that we are in a unique situation and we’ll take advantage of the oil prices as they move and the opportunities for the alternative fuels as they come forward.

Craig Irwin

Thank you for that. My second question was about on road so you’ve talked about $500 million in revenue coming from on road over the next several years. It’s a very clear target.

Can you maybe discuss with us where you sit on achieving that. I know that there are multi-year lead times to develop engines, engage customers, engage programs. Are you already talking to the right customers?

Do you already have the right portfolio to be able to address that opportunity or is there more work that maybe you could frame out for us that you’re going to do over the next year or two and how do we shape this as far as the timeline what would be the primary factors there?

Gary Winemaster

Well we do have the right product for the business that we’ve looked at from Class 3 to Class 7 on highway vehicles. R88 together with the GM products that we offer really address a competitive product to fill those requirements.

We do with the purchase of PI and the products that they've developed along with the products that we have. We have the most comprehensive product offering in the industry.

So with that we also have very strong relationship with Navistar and we also acquired PI who has an extremely good relationship with Freightliner. So with those two, there is a number of other players that we have relationships that we’re building together, but I think from a customer perspective and from a product perspective, we're in a tremendous situation now to grow that on high way business in the U.S.

Craig Irwin

Great and then last question if I may so in a challenging environment like this, the strong do okay and weak get weaker and there are a couple companies out there that are clearly looking to be acquired, some with more interesting technology, some with less interesting market positions.

Can you maybe update us on your appetite for acquisitions right now or whether or not you will be focused more on internal execution at this point?

Gary Winemaster

At this point, we feel fortunate that we have the right customer relationships in the products to achieve our future goals organically without the need of acquisitions. So for the movement, the focus is really on executing with the current and future customer programs and really at the same time, making sure that we grow the business supportively.

With that said and also integrate the existing acquisition. So we’re not actively looking but with that said, we’re always evaluating the makers by decision and if there is an opportunistic situation that comes our way we will certainly take a look at that.

Eric Cohen

I would also add that, the one thing about our company is that, we’re not a component supplier. We’re a solutions supplier and we do deliver the final solution to the OEM and have that relationship with the end customer not necessarily with the engine builder.

So I think we’re unique in that position and the advantages that provides us with the technologies that we have today that we've developed on our own, I think we’re in end within acquisition I think we’re in a great position to realize those opportunities as they come up.

Craig Irwin

Okay. Great, thanks again for taking my questions.

Gary Winemaster

Thank you.

Operator

We’ll go next to Walter Liptak with Global Hunter.

Walter Liptak

Hi, thanks guys. I want to ask a follow on the oil and gas reduction, wonder if you could tell us about just kind of the trends you saw during the second quarter and what you're seeing in July?

Was there a point during the quarter, one of things we’re hearing is that with the price decline in the oil in July, some projects have pushed out. I wonder if that’s the kind of trend that you saw as well. If there were something happened also happened during the quarter to -- bring that guidance down.

Gary Winemaster

When we gave our guidance for oil and gas for 2015 we gave a $150 million. Included in that $150 million was $25 million for the 4,000 series per contingence. So with that program being no, I think that we still believe that we could deliver some of those units this year.

And I think the fact that we’re now in a position where we don’t believe that we can or if so I think it would be an significant number, we remove that $25 million from the oil and gas number that we had.

We saw nearly $60 million of oil and gas in the first half of the year. So we believe that we’re going to be close to what we were last year, but we still thought it was our position to notify the market that there was some challenges in that space and I think everyone understands what they are?

Walter Liptak

Okay. Even, another theme that we've been hearing about in oil and gas is the out stream producers, trying to reduce cost and asking suppliers to reduce price. I wonder if on the power gen set side, if you’re seeing sort of those negotiations pressures as well?

Gary Winemaster

One of the things that as the pressure comes on cost in that space, I think we are a viable solution for cost reductions as we run on gas. I think there is an awareness that we are a solution, but I think we're seeing some of the production sites being reduced and I think that’s what is causing some of the headwinds that we’re seeing.

Walter Liptak

Okay. Yeah it makes sense. Thank you.

Operator

We have no more questions in queue. So at this time I'll turn the call back over to Gary Winemaster for any additional or closing arguments.

Gary Winemaster

Thank you, operator. Before we conclude let me mention upcoming conferences at which we will be presenting. Next week on Monday August 10, we will present and Host Investor Meetings at the Jefferies Industrial Conference in New York.

On Wednesday, September 2, we will host at the Global Hunter One-on-One Series Industrial Conference here in Chicago.

So this concludes our call. Thank you for your interest in Power Solutions International. We look forward to our next conference call with you in November, when we will report our third quarter results. Thank you.